



                abcde'S ADVENTURES IN WONDERLAND

                          Lewis Carroll

               THE MILLENNIUM FULCRUM EDITION 2.9




                            CHAPTER I

                      Down the Rabbit-Hole


  Alice was beginning to get very tired of sitting by her sister
on the bank, and of having nothing to do:  once or twice she had
peeped into the book her sister was reading, but it had no
pictures or conversations in it, `and what is the use of a book,'
thought Alice `without pictures or conversation?'

  So she was considering in her own mind (as well as she could,
for the hot day made her feel very sleepy and stupid), whether
the pleasure of making a daisy-chain would be worth the trouble
of getting up and picking the daisies, when suddenly a White
Rabbit with pink eyes ran close by her.

  There was nothing so VERY remarkable in that; nor did Alice
think it so VERY much out of the way to hear the Rabbit say to
itself, `Oh dear!  Oh dear!  I shall be late!'  (when she thought
it over afterwards, it occurred to her that she ought to have
wondered at this, but at the time it all seemed quite natural);
but when the Rabbit actually TOOK A WATCH OUT OF ITS WAISTCOAT-
POCKET, and looked at it, and then hurried on, Alice started to
her feet, for it flashed across her mind that she had never
before seen a rabbit with either a waistcoat-pocket, or a watch to
take out of it, and burning with curiosity, she ran across the
field after it, and fortunately was just in time to see it pop
down a large rabbit-hole under the hedge.

  In another moment down went Alice after it, never once
considering how in the world she was to get out again.

  The rabbit-hole went straight on like a tunnel for some way,
and then dipped suddenly down, so suddenly that Alice had not a
moment to think about stopping herself before she found herself
falling down a very deep well.

  Either the well was very deep, or she fell very slowly, for she
had plenty of time as she went down to look about her and to
wonder what was going to happen next.  First, she tried to look
down and make out what she was coming to, but it was too dark to
see anything; then she looked at the sides of the well, and
noticed that they were filled with cupboards and book-shelves;
here and there she saw maps and pictures hung upon pegs.  She
took down a jar from one of the shelves as she passed; it was
labelled `ORANGE MARMALADE', but to her great disappointment it
was empty:  she did not like to drop the jar for fear of killing
somebody, so managed to put it into one of the cupboards as she
fell past it.

  `Well!' thought Alice to herself, `after such a fall as this, I
shall think nothing of tumbling down stairs!  How brave they'll
all think me at home!  Why, I wouldn't say anything about it,
even if I fell off the top of the house!' (Which was very likely
true.)

  Down, down, down.  Would the fall NEVER come to an end!  `I
wonder how many miles I've fallen by this time?' she said aloud.
`I must be getting somewhere near the centre of the earth.  Let
me see:  that would be four thousand miles down, I think--' (for,
you see, Alice had learnt several things of this sort in her
lessons in the schoolroom, and though this was not a VERY good
opportunity for showing off her knowledge, as there was no one to
listen to her, still it was good practice to say it over) `--yes,
that's about the right distance--but then I wonder what Latitude
or Longitude I've got to?'  (Alice had no idea what Latitude was,
or Longitude either, but thought they were nice grand words to
say.)

  Presently she began again.  `I wonder if I shall fall right
THROUGH the earth!  How funny it'll seem to come out among the
people that walk with their heads downward!  The Antipathies, I
think--' (she was rather glad there WAS no one listening, this
time, as it didn't sound at all the right word) `--but I shall
have to ask them what the name of the country is, you know.
Please, Ma'am, is this New Zealand or Australia?' (and she tried
to curtsey as she spoke--fancy CURTSEYING as you're falling
through the air!  Do you think you could manage it?)  `And what
an ignorant little girl she'll think me for asking!  No, it'll
never do to ask:  perhaps I shall see it written up somewhere.'

  Down, down, down.  There was nothing else to do, so Alice soon
began talking again.  `Dinah'll miss me very much to-night, I
should think!'  (Dinah was the cat.)  `I hope they'll remember
her saucer of milk at tea-time.  Dinah my dear!  I wish you were
down here with me!  There are no mice in the air, I'm afraid, but
you might catch a bat, and that's very like a mouse, you know.
But do cats eat bats, I wonder?'  And here Alice began to get
rather sleepy, and went on saying to herself, in a dreamy sort of
way, `Do cats eat bats?  Do cats eat bats?' and sometimes, `Do
bats eat cats?' for, you see, as she couldn't answer either
question, it didn't much matter which way she put it.  She felt
that she was dozing off, and had just begun to dream that she
was walking hand in hand with Dinah, and saying to her very
earnestly, `Now, Dinah, tell me the truth:  did you ever eat a
bat?' when suddenly, thump! thump! down she came upon a heap of
sticks and dry leaves, and the fall was over.

  Alice was not a bit hurt, and she jumped up on to her feet in a
moment:  she looked up, but it was all dark overhead; before her
was another long passage, and the White Rabbit was still in
sight, hurrying down it.  There was not a moment to be lost:
away went Alice like the wind, and was just in time to hear it
say, as it turned a corner, `Oh my ears and whiskers, how late
it's getting!'  She was close behind it when she turned the
corner, but the Rabbit was no longer to be seen:  she found
herself in a long, low hall, which was lit up by a row of lamps
hanging from the roof.

  There were doors all round the hall, but they were all locked;
and when Alice had been all the way down one side and up the
other, trying every door, she walked sadly down the middle,
wondering how she was ever to get out again.

  Suddenly she came upon a little three-legged table, all made of
solid glass; there was nothing on it except a tiny golden key,
and Alice's first thought was that it might belong to one of the
doors of the hall; but, alas! either the locks were too large, or
the key was too small, but at any rate it would not open any of
them.  However, on the second time round, she came upon a low
curtain she had not noticed before, and behind it was a little
door about fifteen inches high:  she tried the little golden key
in the lock, and to her great delight it fitted!

  Alice opened the door and found that it led into a small
passage, not much larger than a rat-hole:  she knelt down and
looked along the passage into the loveliest garden you ever saw.
How she longed to get out of that dark hall, and wander about
among those beds of bright flowers and those cool fountains, but
she could not even get her head though the doorway; `and even if
my head would go through,' thought poor Alice, `it would be of
very little use without my shoulders.  Oh, how I wish
I could shut up like a telescope!  I think I could, if I only
know how to begin.'  For, you see, so many out-of-the-way things
had happened lately, that Alice had begun to think that very few
things indeed were really impossible.

  There seemed to be no use in waiting by the little door, so she
went back to the table, half hoping she might find another key on
it, or at any rate a book of rules for shutting people up like
telescopes:  this time she found a little bottle on it, (`which
certainly was not here before,' said Alice,) and round the neck
of the bottle was a paper label, with the words `DRINK ME'
beautifully printed on it in large letters.

  It was all very well to say `Drink me,' but the wise little
Alice was not going to do THAT in a hurry.  `No, I'll look
first,' she said, `and see whether it's marked "poison" or not';
for she had read several nice little histories about children who
had got burnt, and eaten up by wild beasts and other unpleasant
things, all because they WOULD not remember the simple rules
their friends had taught them:  such as, that a red-hot poker
will burn you if you hold it too long; and that if you cut your
finger VERY deeply with a knife, it usually bleeds; and she had
never forgotten that, if you drink much from a bottle marked
`poison,' it is almost certain to disagree with you, sooner or
later.

  However, this bottle was NOT marked `poison,' so Alice ventured
to taste it, and finding it very nice, (it had, in fact, a sort
of mixed flavour of cherry-tart, custard, pine-apple, roast
turkey, toffee, and hot buttered toast,) she very soon finished
it off.

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

         *       *       *       *       *       *

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

  `What a curious feeling!' said Alice; `I must be shutting up
like a telescope.'

  And so it was indeed:  she was now only ten inches high, and
her face brightened up at the thought that she was now the right
size for going though the little door into that lovely garden.
First, however, she waited for a few minutes to see if she was
going to shrink any further:  she felt a little nervous about
this; `for it might end, you know,' said Alice to herself, `in my
going out altogether, like a candle.  I wonder what I should be
like then?'  And she tried to fancy what the flame of a candle is
like after the candle is blown out, for she could not remember
ever having seen such a thing.

  After a while, finding that nothing more happened, she decided
on going into the garden at once; but, alas for poor Alice! when
she got to the door, she found he had forgotten the little golden
key, and when she went back to the table for it, she found she
could not possibly reach it:  she could see it quite plainly
through the glass, and she tried her best to climb up one of the
legs of the table, but it was too slippery; and when she had
tired herself out with trying, the poor little thing sat down and
cried.

  `Come, there's no use in crying like that!' said Alice to
herself, rather sharply; `I advise you to leave off this minute!'
She generally gave herself very good advice, (though she very
seldom followed it), and sometimes she scolded herself so
severely as to bring tears into her eyes; and once she remembered
trying to box her own ears for having cheated herself in a game
of croquet she was playing against herself, for this curious
child was very fond of pretending to be two people.  `But it's no
use now,' thought poor Alice, `to pretend to be two people!  Why,
there's hardly enough of me left to make ONE respectable
person!'

  Soon her eye fell on a little glass box that was lying under
the table:  she opened it, and found in it a very small cake, on
which the words `EAT ME' were beautifully marked in currants.
`Well, I'll eat it,' said Alice, `and if it makes me grow larger,
I can reach the key; and if it makes me grow smaller, I can creep
under the door; so either way I'll get into the garden, and I
don't care which happens!'

  She ate a little bit, and said anxiously to herself, `Which
way?  Which way?', holding her hand on the top of her head to
feel which way it was growing, and she was quite surprised to
find that she remained the same size:  to be sure, this generally
happens when one eats cake, but Alice had got so much into the
way of expecting nothing but out-of-the-way things to happen,
that it seemed quite dull and stupid for life to go on in the
common way.

  So she set to work, and very soon finished off the cake.

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

         *       *       *       *       *       *

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *




                           CHAPTER II

                        The Pool of Tears


  `Curiouser and curiouser!' cried Alice (she was so much
surprised, that for the moment she quite forgot how to speak good
English); `now I'm opening out like the largest telescope that
ever was!  Good-bye, feet!' (for when she looked down at her
feet, they seemed to be almost out of sight, they were getting so
far off).  `Oh, my poor little feet, I wonder who will put on
your shoes and stockings for you now, dears?  I'm sure _I_ shan't
be able!  I shall be a great deal too far off to trouble myself
about you:  you must manage the best way you can; --but I must be
kind to them,' thought Alice, `or perhaps they won't walk the
way I want to go!  Let me see:  I'll give them a new pair of
boots every Christmas.'

  And she went on planning to herself how she would manage it.
`They must go by the carrier,' she thought; `and how funny it'll
seem, sending presents to one's own feet!  And how odd the
directions will look!

            abcde'S RIGHT FOOT, ESQ.
                HEARTHRUG,
                    NEAR THE FENDER,
                        (WITH abcde'S LOVE).

Oh dear, what nonsense I'm talking!'

  Just then her head struck against the roof of the hall:  in
fact she was now more than nine feet high, and she at once took
up the little golden key and hurried off to the garden door.

  Poor Alice!  It was as much as she could do, lying down on one
side, to look through into the garden with one eye; but to get
through was more hopeless than ever:  she sat down and began to
cry again.

  `You ought to be ashamed of yourself,' said Alice, `a great
girl like you,' (she might well say this), `to go on crying in
this way!  Stop this moment, I tell you!'  But she went on all
the same, shedding gallons of tears, until there was a large pool
all round her, about four inches deep and reaching half down the
hall.

  After a time she heard a little pattering of feet in the
distance, and she hastily dried her eyes to see what was coming.
It was the White Rabbit returning, splendidly dressed, with a
pair of white kid gloves in one hand and a large fan in the
other:  he came trotting along in a great hurry, muttering to
himself as he came, `Oh! the Duchess, the Duchess! Oh! won't she
be savage if I've kept her waiting!'  Alice felt so desperate
that she was ready to ask help of any one; so, when the Rabbit
came near her, she began, in a low, timid voice, `If you please,
sir--'  The Rabbit started violently, dropped the white kid
gloves and the fan, and skurried away into the darkness as hard
as he could go.

  Alice took up the fan and gloves, and, as the hall was very
hot, she kept fanning herself all the time she went on talking:
`Dear, dear!  How queer everything is to-day!  And yesterday
things went on just as usual.  I wonder if I've been changed in
the night?  Let me think:  was I the same when I got up this
morning?  I almost think I can remember feeling a little
different.  But if I'm not the same, the next question is, Who in
the world am I?  Ah, THAT'S the great puzzle!'  And she began
thinking over all the children she knew that were of the same age
as herself, to see if she could have been changed for any of
them.

  `I'm sure I'm not Ada,' she said, `for her hair goes in such
long ringlets, and mine doesn't go in ringlets at all; and I'm
sure I can't be Mabel, for I know all sorts of things, and she,
oh! she knows such a very little!  Besides, SHE'S she, and I'm I,
and--oh dear, how puzzling it all is!  I'll try if I know all the
things I used to know.  Let me see:  four times five is twelve,
and four times six is thirteen, and four times seven is--oh dear!
I shall never get to twenty at that rate!  However, the
Multiplication Table doesn't signify:  let's try Geography.
London is the capital of Paris, and Paris is the capital of Rome,
and Rome--no, THAT'S all wrong, I'm certain!  I must have been
changed for Mabel!  I'll try and say "How doth the little--"'
and she crossed her hands on her lap as if she were saying lessons,
and began to repeat it, but her voice sounded hoarse and
strange, and the words did not come the same as they used to do:--

            `How doth the little crocodile
              Improve his shining tail,
            And pour the waters of the Nile
              On every golden scale!

            `How cheerfully he seems to grin,
              How neatly spread his claws,
            And welcome little fishes in
              With gently smiling jaws!'

  `I'm sure those are not the right words,' said poor Alice, and
her eyes filled with tears again as she went on, `I must be Mabel
after all, and I shall have to go and live in that poky little
house, and have next to no toys to play with, and oh! ever so
many lessons to learn!  No, I've made up my mind about it; if I'm
Mabel, I'll stay down here!  It'll be no use their putting their
heads down and saying "Come up again, dear!"  I shall only look
up and say "Who am I then?  Tell me that first, and then, if I
like being that person, I'll come up:  if not, I'll stay down
here till I'm somebody else"--but, oh dear!' cried Alice, with a
sudden burst of tears, `I do wish they WOULD put their heads
down!  I am so VERY tired of being all alone here!'

  As she said this she looked down at her hands, and was
surprised to see that she had put on one of the Rabbit's little
white kid gloves while she was talking.  `How CAN I have done
that?' she thought.  `I must be growing small again.'  She got up
and went to the table to measure herself by it, and found that,
as nearly as she could guess, she was now about two feet high,
and was going on shrinking rapidly:  she soon found out that the
cause of this was the fan she was holding, and she dropped it
hastily, just in time to avoid shrinking away altogether.

`That WAS a narrow escape!' said Alice, a good deal frightened at
the sudden change, but very glad to find herself still in
existence; `and now for the garden!' and she ran with all speed
back to the little door:  but, alas! the little door was shut
again, and the little golden key was lying on the glass table as
before, `and things are worse than ever,' thought the poor child,
`for I never was so small as this before, never!  And I declare
it's too bad, that it is!'

  As she said these words her foot slipped, and in another
moment, splash! she was up to her chin in salt water.  He first
idea was that she had somehow fallen into the sea, `and in that
case I can go back by railway,' she said to herself.  (Alice had
been to the seaside once in her life, and had come to the general
conclusion, that wherever you go to on the English coast you find
a number of bathing machines in the sea, some children digging in
the sand with wooden spades, then a row of lodging houses, and
behind them a railway station.)  However, she soon made out that
she was in the pool of tears which she had wept when she was nine
feet high.

  `I wish I hadn't cried so much!' said Alice, as she swam about,
trying to find her way out.  `I shall be punished for it now, I
suppose, by being drowned in my own tears!  That WILL be a queer
thing, to be sure!  However, everything is queer to-day.'

  Just then she heard something splashing about in the pool a
little way off, and she swam nearer to make out what it was:  at
first she thought it must be a walrus or hippopotamus, but then
she remembered how small she was now, and she soon made out that
it was only a mouse that had slipped in like herself.

  `Would it be of any use, now,' thought Alice, `to speak to this
mouse?  Everything is so out-of-the-way down here, that I should
think very likely it can talk:  at any rate, there's no harm in
trying.'  So she began:  `O Mouse, do you know the way out of
this pool?  I am very tired of swimming about here, O Mouse!'
(Alice thought this must be the right way of speaking to a mouse:
she had never done such a thing before, but she remembered having
seen in her brother's Latin Grammar, `A mouse--of a mouse--to a
mouse--a mouse--O mouse!'  The Mouse looked at her rather
inquisitively, and seemed to her to wink with one of its little
eyes, but it said nothing.

  `Perhaps it doesn't understand English,' thought Alice; `I
daresay it's a French mouse, come over with William the
Conqueror.'  (For, with all her knowledge of history, Alice had
no very clear notion how long ago anything had happened.)  So she
began again:  `Ou est ma chatte?' which was the first sentence in
her French lesson-book.  The Mouse gave a sudden leap out of the
water, and seemed to quiver all over with fright.  `Oh, I beg
your pardon!' cried Alice hastily, afraid that she had hurt the
poor animal's feelings.  `I quite forgot you didn't like cats.'

  `Not like cats!' cried the Mouse, in a shrill, passionate
voice.  `Would YOU like cats if you were me?'

  `Well, perhaps not,' said Alice in a soothing tone:  `don't be
angry about it.  And yet I wish I could show you our cat Dinah:
I think you'd take a fancy to cats if you could only see her.
She is such a dear quiet thing,' Alice went on, half to herself,
as she swam lazily about in the pool, `and she sits purring so
nicely by the fire, licking her paws and washing her face--and
she is such a nice soft thing to nurse--and she's such a capital
one for catching mice--oh, I beg your pardon!' cried Alice again,
for this time the Mouse was bristling all over, and she felt
certain it must be really offended.  `We won't talk about her any
more if you'd rather not.'

  `We indeed!' cried the Mouse, who was trembling down to the end
of his tail.  `As if I would talk on such a subject!  Our family
always HATED cats:  nasty, low, vulgar things!  Don't let me hear
the name again!'

  `I won't indeed!' said Alice, in a great hurry to change the
subject of conversation.  `Are you--are you fond--of--of dogs?'
The Mouse did not answer, so Alice went on eagerly:  `There is
such a nice little dog near our house I should like to show you!
A little bright-eyed terrier, you know, with oh, such long curly
brown hair!  And it'll fetch things when you throw them, and
it'll sit up and beg for its dinner, and all sorts of things--I
can't remember half of them--and it belongs to a farmer, you
know, and he says it's so useful, it's worth a hundred pounds!
He says it kills all the rats and--oh dear!' cried Alice in a
sorrowful tone, `I'm afraid I've offended it again!'  For the
Mouse was swimming away from her as hard as it could go, and
making quite a commotion in the pool as it went.

  So she called softly after it, `Mouse dear!  Do come back
again, and we won't talk about cats or dogs either, if you don't
like them!'  When the Mouse heard this, it turned round and swam
slowly back to her:  its face was quite pale (with passion, Alice
thought), and it said in a low trembling voice, `Let us get to
the shore, and then I'll tell you my history, and you'll
understand why it is I hate cats and dogs.'

  It was high time to go, for the pool was getting quite crowded
with the birds and animals that had fallen into it:  there were a
Duck and a Dodo, a Lory and an Eaglet, and several other curious
creatures.  Alice led the way, and the whole party swam to the
shore.



                           CHAPTER III

                  A Caucus-Race and a Long Tale


  They were indeed a queer-looking party that assembled on the
bank--the birds with draggled feathers, the animals with their
fur clinging close to them, and all dripping wet, cross, and
uncomfortable.

  The first question of course was, how to get dry again:  they
had a consultation about this, and after a few minutes it seemed
quite natural to Alice to find herself talking familiarly with
them, as if she had known them all her life.  Indeed, she had
quite a long argument with the Lory, who at last turned sulky,
and would only say, `I am older than you, and must know better';
and this Alice would not allow without knowing how old it was,
and, as the Lory positively refused to tell its age, there was no
more to be said.

  At last the Mouse, who seemed to be a person of authority among
them, called out, `Sit down, all of you, and listen to me!  I'LL
soon make you dry enough!'  They all sat down at once, in a large
ring, with the Mouse in the middle.  Alice kept her eyes
anxiously fixed on it, for she felt sure she would catch a bad
cold if she did not get dry very soon.

  `Ahem!' said the Mouse with an important air, `are you all ready?
This is the driest thing I know.  Silence all round, if you please!
"William the Conqueror, whose cause was favoured by the pope, was
soon submitted to by the English, who wanted leaders, and had been
of late much accustomed to usurpation and conquest.  Edwin and
Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria--"'

  `Ugh!' said the Lory, with a shiver.

  `I beg your pardon!' said the Mouse, frowning, but very
politely:  `Did you speak?'

  `Not I!' said the Lory hastily.

  `I thought you did,' said the Mouse.  `--I proceed.  "Edwin and
Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria, declared for him:
and even Stigand, the patriotic archbishop of Canterbury, found
it advisable--"'

  `Found WHAT?' said the Duck.

  `Found IT,' the Mouse replied rather crossly:  `of course you
know what "it" means.'

  `I know what "it" means well enough, when I find a thing,' said
the Duck:  `it's generally a frog or a worm.  The question is,
what did the archbishop find?'

  The Mouse did not notice this question, but hurriedly went on,
`"--found it advisable to go with Edgar Atheling to meet William
and offer him the crown.  William's conduct at first was
moderate.  But the insolence of his Normans--"  How are you
getting on now, my dear?' it continued, turning to Alice as it
spoke.

  `As wet as ever,' said Alice in a melancholy tone:  `it doesn't
seem to dry me at all.'

  `In that case,' said the Dodo solemnly, rising to its feet, `I
move that the meeting adjourn, for the immediate adoption of more
energetic remedies--'

  `Speak English!' said the Eaglet.  `I don't know the meaning of
half those long words, and, what's more, I don't believe you do
either!'  And the Eaglet bent down its head to hide a smile:
some of the other birds tittered audibly.

  `What I was going to say,' said the Dodo in an offended tone,
`was, that the best thing to get us dry would be a Caucus-race.'

  `What IS a Caucus-race?' said Alice; not that she wanted much
to know, but the Dodo had paused as if it thought that SOMEBODY
ought to speak, and no one else seemed inclined to say anything.

  `Why,' said the Dodo, `the best way to explain it is to do it.'
(And, as you might like to try the thing yourself, some winter
day, I will tell you how the Dodo managed it.)

  First it marked out a race-course, in a sort of circle, (`the
exact shape doesn't matter,' it said,) and then all the party
were placed along the course, here and there.  There was no `One,
two, three, and away,' but they began running when they liked,
and left off when they liked, so that it was not easy to know
when the race was over.  However, when they had been running half
an hour or so, and were quite dry again, the Dodo suddenly called
out `The race is over!' and they all crowded round it, panting,
and asking, `But who has won?'

  This question the Dodo could not answer without a great deal of
thought, and it sat for a long time with one finger pressed upon
its forehead (the position in which you usually see Shakespeare,
in the pictures of him), while the rest waited in silence.  At
last the Dodo said, `EVERYBODY has won, and all must have
prizes.'

  `But who is to give the prizes?' quite a chorus of voices
asked.

  `Why, SHE, of course,' said the Dodo, pointing to Alice with
one finger; and the whole party at once crowded round her,
calling out in a confused way, `Prizes! Prizes!'

  Alice had no idea what to do, and in despair she put her hand
in her pocket, and pulled out a box of comfits, (luckily the salt
water had not got into it), and handed them round as prizes.
There was exactly one a-piece all round.

  `But she must have a prize herself, you know,' said the Mouse.

  `Of course,' the Dodo replied very gravely.  `What else have
you got in your pocket?' he went on, turning to Alice.

  `Only a thimble,' said Alice sadly.

  `Hand it over here,' said the Dodo.

  Then they all crowded round her once more, while the Dodo
solemnly presented the thimble, saying `We beg your acceptance of
this elegant thimble'; and, when it had finished this short
speech, they all cheered.

  Alice thought the whole thing very absurd, but they all looked
so grave that she did not dare to laugh; and, as she could not
think of anything to say, she simply bowed, and took the thimble,
looking as solemn as she could.

  The next thing was to eat the comfits:  this caused some noise
and confusion, as the large birds complained that they could not
taste theirs, and the small ones choked and had to be patted on
the back.  However, it was over at last, and they sat down again
in a ring, and begged the Mouse to tell them something more.

  `You promised to tell me your history, you know,' said Alice,
`and why it is you hate--C and D,' she added in a whisper, half
afraid that it would be offended again.

  `Mine is a long and a sad tale!' said the Mouse, turning to
Alice, and sighing.

  `It IS a long tail, certainly,' said Alice, looking down with
wonder at the Mouse's tail; `but why do you call it sad?'  And
she kept on puzzling about it while the Mouse was speaking, so
that her idea of the tale was something like this:--

                    `Fury said to a
                   mouse, That he
                 met in the
               house,
            "Let us
              both go to
                law:  I will
                  prosecute
                    YOU.  --Come,
                       I'll take no
                        denial; We
                     must have a
                 trial:  For
              really this
           morning I've
          nothing
         to do."
           Said the
             mouse to the
               cur, "Such
                 a trial,
                   dear Sir,
                         With
                     no jury
                  or judge,
                would be
              wasting
             our
              breath."
               "I'll be
                 judge, I'll
                   be jury,"
                         Said
                    cunning
                      old Fury:
                     "I'll
                      try the
                         whole
                          cause,
                             and
                        condemn
                       you
                      to
                       death."'


  `You are not attending!' said the Mouse to Alice severely.
`What are you thinking of?'

  `I beg your pardon,' said Alice very humbly:  `you had got to
the fifth bend, I think?'

  `I had NOT!' cried the Mouse, sharply and very angrily.

  `A knot!' said Alice, always ready to make herself useful, and
looking anxiously about her.  `Oh, do let me help to undo it!'

  `I shall do nothing of the sort,' said the Mouse, getting up
and walking away.  `You insult me by talking such nonsense!'

  `I didn't mean it!' pleaded poor Alice.  `But you're so easily
offended, you know!'

  The Mouse only growled in reply.

  `Please come back and finish your story!' Alice called after
it; and the others all joined in chorus, `Yes, please do!' but
the Mouse only shook its head impatiently, and walked a little
quicker.

  `What a pity it wouldn't stay!' sighed the Lory, as soon as it
was quite out of sight; and an old Crab took the opportunity of
saying to her daughter `Ah, my dear!  Let this be a lesson to you
never to lose YOUR temper!'  `Hold your tongue, Ma!' said the
young Crab, a little snappishly.  `You're enough to try the
patience of an oyster!'

  `I wish I had our Dinah here, I know I do!' said Alice aloud,
addressing nobody in particular.  `She'd soon fetch it back!'

  `And who is Dinah, if I might venture to ask the question?'
said the Lory.

  Alice replied eagerly, for she was always ready to talk about
her pet:  `Dinah's our cat.  And she's such a capital one for
catching mice you can't think!  And oh, I wish you could see her
after the birds!  Why, she'll eat a little bird as soon as look
at it!'

  This speech caused a remarkable sensation among the party.
Some of the birds hurried off at once:  one the old Magpie began
wrapping itself up very carefully, remarking, `I really must be
getting home; the night-air doesn't suit my throat!' and a Canary
called out in a trembling voice to its children, `Come away, my
dears!  It's high time you were all in bed!'  On various pretexts
they all moved off, and Alice was soon left alone.

  `I wish I hadn't mentioned Dinah!' she said to herself in a
melancholy tone.  `Nobody seems to like her, down here, and I'm
sure she's the best cat in the world!  Oh, my dear Dinah!  I
wonder if I shall ever see you any more!'  And here poor Alice
began to cry again, for she felt very lonely and low-spirited.
In a little while, however, she again heard a little pattering of
footsteps in the distance, and she looked up eagerly, half hoping
that the Mouse had changed his mind, and was coming back to
finish his story.



                           CHAPTER IV

                The Rabbit Sends in a Little Bill


  It was the White Rabbit, trotting slowly back again, and
looking anxiously about as it went, as if it had lost something;
and she heard it muttering to itself `The Duchess!  The Duchess!
Oh my dear paws!  Oh my fur and whiskers!  She'll get me
executed, as sure as ferrets are ferrets!  Where CAN I have
dropped them, I wonder?'  Alice guessed in a moment that it was
looking for the fan and the pair of white kid gloves, and she
very good-naturedly began hunting about for them, but they were
nowhere to be seen--everything seemed to have changed since her
swim in the pool, and the great hall, with the glass table and
the little door, had vanished completely.

  Very soon the Rabbit noticed Alice, as she went hunting about,
and called out to her in an angry tone, `Why, Mary Ann, what ARE
you doing out here?  Run home this moment, and fetch me a pair of
gloves and a fan!  Quick, now!'  And Alice was so much frightened
that she ran off at once in the direction it pointed to, without
trying to explain the mistake it had made.

  `He took me for his housemaid,' she said to herself as she ran.
`How surprised he'll be when he finds out who I am!  But I'd
better take him his fan and gloves--that is, if I can find them.'
As she said this, she came upon a neat little house, on the door
of which was a bright brass plate with the name `W. RABBIT'
engraved upon it.  She went in without knocking, and hurried
upstairs, in great fear lest she should meet the real Mary Ann,
and be turned out of the house before she had found the fan and
gloves.

  `How queer it seems,' Alice said to herself, `to be going
messages for a rabbit!  I suppose Dinah'll be sending me on
messages next!'  And she began fancying the sort of thing that
would happen:  `"Miss Alice!  Come here directly, and get ready
for your walk!" "Coming in a minute, nurse!  But I've got to see
that the mouse doesn't get out."  Only I don't think,' Alice went
on, `that they'd let Dinah stop in the house if it began ordering
people about like that!'

  By this time she had found her way into a tidy little room with
a table in the window, and on it (as she had hoped) a fan and two
or three pairs of tiny white kid gloves:  she took up the fan and
a pair of the gloves, and was just going to leave the room, when
her eye fell upon a little bottle that stood near the looking-
glass.  There was no label this time with the words `DRINK ME,'
but nevertheless she uncorked it and put it to her lips.  `I know
SOMETHING interesting is sure to happen,' she said to herself,
`whenever I eat or drink anything; so I'll just see what this
bottle does.  I do hope it'll make me grow large again, for
really I'm quite tired of being such a tiny little thing!'

  It did so indeed, and much sooner than she had expected:
before she had drunk half the bottle, she found her head pressing
against the ceiling, and had to stoop to save her neck from being
broken.  She hastily put down the bottle, saying to herself
`That's quite enough--I hope I shan't grow any more--As it is, I
can't get out at the door--I do wish I hadn't drunk quite so
much!'

  Alas! it was too late to wish that!  She went on growing, and
growing, and very soon had to kneel down on the floor:  in
another minute there was not even room for this, and she tried
the effect of lying down with one elbow against the door, and the
other arm curled round her head.  Still she went on growing, and,
as a last resource, she put one arm out of the window, and one
foot up the chimney, and said to herself `Now I can do no more,
whatever happens.  What WILL become of me?'

  Luckily for Alice, the little magic bottle had now had its full
effect, and she grew no larger:  still it was very uncomfortable,
and, as there seemed to be no sort of chance of her ever getting
out of the room again, no wonder she felt unhappy.

  `It was much pleasanter at home,' thought poor Alice, `when one
wasn't always growing larger and smaller, and being ordered about
by mice and rabbits.  I almost wish I hadn't gone down that
rabbit-hole--and yet--and yet--it's rather curious, you know,
this sort of life!  I do wonder what CAN have happened to me!
When I used to read fairy-tales, I fancied that kind of thing
never happened, and now here I am in the middle of one!  There
ought to be a book written about me, that there ought!  And when
I grow up, I'll write one--but I'm grown up now,' she added in a
sorrowful tone; `at least there's no room to grow up any more
HERE.'

  `But then,' thought Alice, `shall I NEVER get any older than I
am now?  That'll be a comfort, one way--never to be an old woman-
-but then--always to have lessons to learn!  Oh, I shouldn't like
THAT!'

  `Oh, you foolish Alice!' she answered herself.  `How can you
learn lessons in here?  Why, there's hardly room for YOU, and no
room at all for any lesson-books!'

  And so she went on, taking first one side and then the other,
and making quite a conversation of it altogether; but after a few
minutes she heard a voice outside, and stopped to listen.

  `Mary Ann!  Mary Ann!' said the voice.  `Fetch me my gloves
this moment!'  Then came a little pattering of feet on the
stairs.  Alice knew it was the Rabbit coming to look for her, and
she trembled till she shook the house, quite forgetting that she
was now about a thousand times as large as the Rabbit, and had no
reason to be afraid of it.

  Presently the Rabbit came up to the door, and tried to open it;
but, as the door opened inwards, and Alice's elbow was pressed
hard against it, that attempt proved a failure.  Alice heard it
say to itself `Then I'll go round and get in at the window.'

  `THAT you won't' thought Alice, and, after waiting till she
fancied she heard the Rabbit just under the window, she suddenly
spread out her hand, and made a snatch in the air.  She did not
get hold of anything, but she heard a little shriek and a fall,
and a crash of broken glass, from which she concluded that it was
just possible it had fallen into a cucumber-frame, or something
of the sort.

  Next came an angry voice--the Rabbit's--`Pat! Pat!  Where are
you?'  And then a voice she had never heard before, `Sure then
I'm here!  Digging for apples, yer honour!'

  `Digging for apples, indeed!' said the Rabbit angrily.  `Here!
Come and help me out of THIS!'  (Sounds of more broken glass.)

  `Now tell me, Pat, what's that in the window?'

  `Sure, it's an arm, yer honour!'  (He pronounced it `arrum.')

  `An arm, you goose!   Who ever saw one that size?  Why, it
fills the whole window!'

  `Sure, it does, yer honour:  but it's an arm for all that.'

  `Well, it's got no business there, at any rate:  go and take it
away!'

  There was a long silence after this, and Alice could only hear
whispers now and then; such as, `Sure, I don't like it, yer
honour, at all, at all!'  `Do as I tell you, you coward!' and at
last she spread out her hand again, and made another snatch in
the air.  This time there were TWO little shrieks, and more
sounds of broken glass.  `What a number of cucumber-frames there
must be!' thought Alice.  `I wonder what they'll do next!  As for
pulling me out of the window, I only wish they COULD!  I'm sure I
don't want to stay in here any longer!'

  She waited for some time without hearing anything more:  at
last came a rumbling of little cartwheels, and the sound of a
good many voice all talking together:  she made out the words:
`Where's the other ladder?--Why, I hadn't to bring but one;
Bill's got the other--Bill! fetch it here, lad!--Here, put 'em up
at this corner--No, tie 'em together first--they don't reach half
high enough yet--Oh! they'll do well enough; don't be particular-
-Here, Bill! catch hold of this rope--Will the roof bear?--Mind
that loose slate--Oh, it's coming down!  Heads below!' (a loud
crash)--`Now, who did that?--It was Bill, I fancy--Who's to go
down the chimney?--Nay, I shan't! YOU do it!--That I won't,
then!--Bill's to go down--Here, Bill! the master says you're to
go down the chimney!'

  `Oh! So Bill's got to come down the chimney, has he?' said
Alice to herself.  `Shy, they seem to put everything upon Bill!
I wouldn't be in Bill's place for a good deal:  this fireplace is
narrow, to be sure; but I THINK I can kick a little!'

  She drew her foot as far down the chimney as she could, and
waited till she heard a little animal (she couldn't guess of what
sort it was) scratching and scrambling about in the chimney close
above her:  then, saying to herself `This is Bill,' she gave one
sharp kick, and waited to see what would happen next.

  The first thing she heard was a general chorus of `There goes
Bill!' then the Rabbit's voice along--`Catch him, you by the
hedge!' then silence, and then another confusion of voices--`Hold
up his head--Brandy now--Don't choke him--How was it, old fellow?
What happened to you?  Tell us all about it!'

  Last came a little feeble, squeaking voice, (`That's Bill,'
thought Alice,) `Well, I hardly know--No more, thank ye; I'm
better now--but I'm a deal too flustered to tell you--all I know
is, something comes at me like a Jack-in-the-box, and up I goes
like a sky-rocket!'

  `So you did, old fellow!' said the others.

  `We must burn the house down!' said the Rabbit's voice; and
Alice called out as loud as she could, `If you do.  I'll set
Dinah at you!'

  There was a dead silence instantly, and Alice thought to
herself, `I wonder what they WILL do next!  If they had any
sense, they'd take the roof off.'  After a minute or two, they
began moving about again, and Alice heard the Rabbit say, `A
barrowful will do, to begin with.'

  `A barrowful of WHAT?' thought Alice; but she had not long to
doubt, for the next moment a shower of little pebbles came
rattling in at the window, and some of them hit her in the face.
`I'll put a stop to this,' she said to herself, and shouted out,
`You'd better not do that again!' which produced another dead
silence.

  Alice noticed with some surprise that the pebbles were all
turning into little cakes as they lay on the floor, and a bright
idea came into her head.  `If I eat one of these cakes,' she
thought, `it's sure to make SOME change in my size; and as it
can't possibly make me larger, it must make me smaller, I
suppose.'

  So she swallowed one of the cakes, and was delighted to find
that she began shrinking directly.  As soon as she was small
enough to get through the door, she ran out of the house, and
found quite a crowd of little animals and birds waiting outside.
The poor little Lizard, Bill, was in the middle, being held up by
two guinea-pigs, who were giving it something out of a bottle.
They all made a rush at Alice the moment she appeared; but she
ran off as hard as she could, and soon found herself safe in a
thick wood.

  `The first thing I've got to do,' said Alice to herself, as she
wandered about in the wood, `is to grow to my right size again;
and the second thing is to find my way into that lovely garden.
I think that will be the best plan.'

  It sounded an excellent plan, no doubt, and very neatly and
simply arranged; the only difficulty was, that she had not the
smallest idea how to set about it; and while she was peering
about anxiously among the trees, a little sharp bark just over
her head made her look up in a great hurry.

  An enormous puppy was looking down at her with large round
eyes, and feebly stretching out one paw, trying to touch her.
`Poor little thing!' said Alice, in a coaxing tone, and she tried
hard to whistle to it; but she was terribly frightened all the
time at the thought that it might be hungry, in which case it
would be very likely to eat her up in spite of all her coaxing.

  Hardly knowing what she did, she picked up a little bit of
stick, and held it out to the puppy; whereupon the puppy jumped
into the air off all its feet at once, with a yelp of delight,
and rushed at the stick, and made believe to worry it; then Alice
dodged behind a great thistle, to keep herself from being run
over; and the moment she appeared on the other side, the puppy
made another rush at the stick, and tumbled head over heels in
its hurry to get hold of it; then Alice, thinking it was very
like having a game of play with a cart-horse, and expecting every
moment to be trampled under its feet, ran round the thistle
again; then the puppy began a series of short charges at the
stick, running a very little way forwards each time and a long
way back, and barking hoarsely all the while, till at last it sat
down a good way off, panting, with its tongue hanging out of its
mouth, and its great eyes half shut.

  This seemed to Alice a good opportunity for making her escape;
so she set off at once, and ran till she was quite tired and out
of breath, and till the puppy's bark sounded quite faint in the
distance.

  `And yet what a dear little puppy it was!' said Alice, as she
leant against a buttercup to rest herself, and fanned herself
with one of the leaves:  `I should have liked teaching it tricks
very much, if--if I'd only been the right size to do it!  Oh
dear!  I'd nearly forgotten that I've got to grow up again!  Let
me see--how IS it to be managed?  I suppose I ought to eat or
drink something or other; but the great question is, what?'

  The great question certainly was, what?  Alice looked all round
her at the flowers and the blades of grass, but she did not see
anything that looked like the right thing to eat or drink under
the circumstances.  There was a large mushroom growing near her,
about the same height as herself; and when she had looked under
it, and on both sides of it, and behind it, it occurred to her
that she might as well look and see what was on the top of it.

  She stretched herself up on tiptoe, and peeped over the edge of
the mushroom, and her eyes immediately met those of a large
caterpillar, that was sitting on the top with its arms folded,
quietly smoking a long hookah, and taking not the smallest notice
of her or of anything else.



                            CHAPTER V

                    Advice from a Caterpillar


  The Caterpillar and Alice looked at each other for some time in
silence:  at last the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its
mouth, and addressed her in a languid, sleepy voice.

  `Who are YOU?' said the Caterpillar.

  This was not an encouraging opening for a conversation.  Alice
replied, rather shyly, `I--I hardly know, sir, just at present--
at least I know who I WAS when I got up this morning, but I think
I must have been changed several times since then.'

  `What do you mean by that?' said the Caterpillar sternly.
`Explain yourself!'

  `I can't explain MYSELF, I'm afraid, sir' said Alice, `because
I'm not myself, you see.'

  `I don't see,' said the Caterpillar.

  `I'm afraid I can't put it more clearly,' Alice replied very
politely, `for I can't understand it myself to begin with; and
being so many different sizes in a day is very confusing.'

  `It isn't,' said the Caterpillar.

  `Well, perhaps you haven't found it so yet,' said Alice; `but
when you have to turn into a chrysalis--you will some day, you
know--and then after that into a butterfly, I should think you'll
feel it a little queer, won't you?'

  `Not a bit,' said the Caterpillar.

  `Well, perhaps your feelings may be different,' said Alice;
`all I know is, it would feel very queer to ME.'

  `You!' said the Caterpillar contemptuously.  `Who are YOU?'

  Which brought them back again to the beginning of the
conversation.  Alice felt a little irritated at the Caterpillar's
making such VERY short remarks, and she drew herself up and said,
very gravely, `I think, you ought to tell me who YOU are, first.'

  `Why?' said the Caterpillar.

  Here was another puzzling question; and as Alice could not
think of any good reason, and as the Caterpillar seemed to be in
a VERY unpleasant state of mind, she turned away.

  `Come back!' the Caterpillar called after her.  `I've something
important to say!'

  This sounded promising, certainly:  Alice turned and came back
again.

  `Keep your temper,' said the Caterpillar.

  `Is that all?' said Alice, swallowing down her anger as well as
she could.

  `No,' said the Caterpillar.

  Alice thought she might as well wait, as she had nothing else
to do, and perhaps after all it might tell her something worth
hearing.  For some minutes it puffed away without speaking, but
at last it unfolded its arms, took the hookah out of its mouth
again, and said, `So you think you're changed, do you?'

  `I'm afraid I am, sir,' said Alice; `I can't remember things as
I used--and I don't keep the same size for ten minutes together!'

  `Can't remember WHAT things?' said the Caterpillar.

  `Well, I've tried to say "HOW DOTH THE LITTLE BUSY BEE," but it
all came different!' Alice replied in a very melancholy voice.

  `Repeat, "YOU ARE OLD, FATHER WILLIAM,"' said the Caterpillar.

  Alice folded her hands, and began:--

    `You are old, Father William,' the young man said,
      `And your hair has become very white;
    And yet you incessantly stand on your head--
      Do you think, at your age, it is right?'

    `In my youth,' Father William replied to his son,
      `I feared it might injure the brain;
    But, now that I'm perfectly sure I have none,
      Why, I do it again and again.'

    `You are old,' said the youth, `as I mentioned before,
      And have grown most uncommonly fat;
    Yet you turned a back-somersault in at the door--
      Pray, what is the reason of that?'

    `In my youth,' said the sage, as he shook his grey locks,
      `I kept all my limbs very supple
    By the use of this ointment--one shilling the box--
      Allow me to sell you a couple?'

    `You are old,' said the youth, `and your jaws are too weak
      For anything tougher than suet;
    Yet you finished the goose, with the bones and the beak--
      Pray how did you manage to do it?'

    `In my youth,' said his father, `I took to the law,
      And argued each case with my wife;
    And the muscular strength, which it gave to my jaw,
      Has lasted the rest of my life.'

    `You are old,' said the youth, `one would hardly suppose
      That your eye was as steady as ever;
    Yet you balanced an eel on the end of your nose--
      What made you so awfully clever?'

    `I have answered three questions, and that is enough,'
      Said his father; `don't give yourself airs!
    Do you think I can listen all day to such stuff?
      Be off, or I'll kick you down stairs!'


  `That is not said right,' said the Caterpillar.

  `Not QUITE right, I'm afraid,' said Alice, timidly; `some of the
words have got altered.'

  `It is wrong from beginning to end,' said the Caterpillar
decidedly, and there was silence for some minutes.

  The Caterpillar was the first to speak.

  `What size do you want to be?' it asked.

  `Oh, I'm not particular as to size,' Alice hastily replied;
`only one doesn't like changing so often, you know.'

  `I DON'T know,' said the Caterpillar.

  Alice said nothing:  she had never been so much contradicted in
her life before, and she felt that she was losing her temper.

  `Are you content now?' said the Caterpillar.

  `Well, I should like to be a LITTLE larger, sir, if you
wouldn't mind,' said Alice:  `three inches is such a wretched
height to be.'

  `It is a very good height indeed!' said the Caterpillar
angrily, rearing itself upright as it spoke (it was exactly three
inches high).

  `But I'm not used to it!' pleaded poor Alice in a piteous tone.
And she thought of herself, `I wish the creatures wouldn't be so
easily offended!'

  `You'll get used to it in time,' said the Caterpillar; and it
put the hookah into its mouth and began smoking again.

  This time Alice waited patiently until it chose to speak again.
In a minute or two the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its
mouth and yawned once or twice, and shook itself.  Then it got
down off the mushroom, and crawled away in the grass, merely
remarking as it went, `One side will make you grow taller, and
the other side will make you grow shorter.'

  `One side of WHAT?  The other side of WHAT?' thought Alice to
herself.

  `Of the mushroom,' said the Caterpillar, just as if she had
asked it aloud; and in another moment it was out of sight.

  Alice remained looking thoughtfully at the mushroom for a
minute, trying to make out which were the two sides of it; and as
it was perfectly round, she found this a very difficult question.
However, at last she stretched her arms round it as far as they
would go, and broke off a bit of the edge with each hand.

  `And now which is which?' she said to herself, and nibbled a
little of the right-hand bit to try the effect:  the next moment
she felt a violent blow underneath her chin:  it had struck her
foot!

  She was a good deal frightened by this very sudden change, but
she felt that there was no time to be lost, as she was shrinking
rapidly; so she set to work at once to eat some of the other bit.
Her chin was pressed so closely against her foot, that there was
hardly room to open her mouth; but she did it at last, and
managed to swallow a morsel of the lefthand bit.


     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

         *       *       *       *       *       *

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

  `Come, my head's free at last!' said Alice in a tone of
delight, which changed into alarm in another moment, when she
found that her shoulders were nowhere to be found:  all she could
see, when she looked down, was an immense length of neck, which
seemed to rise like a stalk out of a sea of green leaves that lay
far below her.

  `What CAN all that green stuff be?' said Alice.  `And where
HAVE my shoulders got to?  And oh, my poor hands, how is it I
can't see you?'  She was moving them about as she spoke, but no
result seemed to follow, except a little shaking among the
distant green leaves.

  As there seemed to be no chance of getting her hands up to her
head, she tried to get her head down to them, and was delighted
to find that her neck would bend about easily in any direction,
like a serpent.  She had just succeeded in curving it down into a
graceful zigzag, and was going to dive in among the leaves, which
she found to be nothing but the tops of the trees under which she
had been wandering, when a sharp hiss made her draw back in a
hurry:  a large pigeon had flown into her face, and was beating
her violently with its wings.

  `Serpent!' screamed the Pigeon.

  `I'm NOT a serpent!' said Alice indignantly.  `Let me alone!'

  `Serpent, I say again!' repeated the Pigeon, but in a more
subdued tone, and added with a kind of sob, `I've tried every
way, and nothing seems to suit them!'

  `I haven't the least idea what you're talking about,' said
Alice.

  `I've tried the roots of trees, and I've tried banks, and I've
tried hedges,' the Pigeon went on, without attending to her; `but
those serpents!  There's no pleasing them!'

  Alice was more and more puzzled, but she thought there was no
use in saying anything more till the Pigeon had finished.

  `As if it wasn't trouble enough hatching the eggs,' said the
Pigeon; `but I must be on the look-out for serpents night and
day!  Why, I haven't had a wink of sleep these three weeks!'

  `I'm very sorry you've been annoyed,' said Alice, who was
beginning to see its meaning.

  `And just as I'd taken the highest tree in the wood,' continued
the Pigeon, raising its voice to a shriek, `and just as I was
thinking I should be free of them at last, they must needs come
wriggling down from the sky!  Ugh, Serpent!'

  `But I'm NOT a serpent, I tell you!' said Alice.  `I'm a--I'm
a--'

  `Well!  WHAT are you?' said the Pigeon.  `I can see you're
trying to invent something!'

  `I--I'm a little girl,' said Alice, rather doubtfully, as she
remembered the number of changes she had gone through that day.

  `A likely story indeed!' said the Pigeon in a tone of the
deepest contempt.  `I've seen a good many little girls in my
time, but never ONE with such a neck as that!  No, no!  You're a
serpent; and there's no use denying it.  I suppose you'll be
telling me next that you never tasted an egg!'

  `I HAVE tasted eggs, certainly,' said Alice, who was a very
truthful child; `but little girls eat eggs quite as much as
serpents do, you know.'

  `I don't believe it,' said the Pigeon; `but if they do, why
then they're a kind of serpent, that's all I can say.'

  This was such a new idea to Alice, that she was quite silent
for a minute or two, which gave the Pigeon the opportunity of
adding, `You're looking for eggs, I know THAT well enough; and
what does it matter to me whether you're a little girl or a
serpent?'

  `It matters a good deal to ME,' said Alice hastily; `but I'm
not looking for eggs, as it happens; and if I was, I shouldn't
want YOURS:  I don't like them raw.'

  `Well, be off, then!' said the Pigeon in a sulky tone, as it
settled down again into its nest.  Alice crouched down among the
trees as well as she could, for her neck kept getting entangled
among the branches, and every now and then she had to stop and
untwist it.  After a while she remembered that she still held the
pieces of mushroom in her hands, and she set to work very
carefully, nibbling first at one and then at the other, and
growing sometimes taller and sometimes shorter, until she had
succeeded in bringing herself down to her usual height.

  It was so long since she had been anything near the right size,
that it felt quite strange at first; but she got used to it in a
few minutes, and began talking to herself, as usual.  `Come,
there's half my plan done now!  How puzzling all these changes
are!  I'm never sure what I'm going to be, from one minute to
another!  However, I've got back to my right size:  the next
thing is, to get into that beautiful garden--how IS that to be
done, I wonder?'  As she said this, she came suddenly upon an
open place, with a little house in it about four feet high.
`Whoever lives there,' thought Alice, `it'll never do to come
upon them THIS size:  why, I should frighten them out of their
wits!'  So she began nibbling at the righthand bit again, and did
not venture to go near the house till she had brought herself
down to nine inches high.



                           CHAPTER VI

                         Pig and Pepper


  For a minute or two she stood looking at the house, and
wondering what to do next, when suddenly a footman in livery came
running out of the wood--(she considered him to be a footman
because he was in livery:  otherwise, judging by his face only,
she would have called him a fish)--and rapped loudly at the door
with his knuckles.  It was opened by another footman in livery,
with a round face, and large eyes like a frog; and both footmen,
Alice noticed, had powdered hair that curled all over their
heads.  She felt very curious to know what it was all about, and
crept a little way out of the wood to listen.

  The Fish-Footman began by producing from under his arm a great
letter, nearly as large as himself, and this he handed over to
the other, saying, in a solemn tone, `For the Duchess.  An
invitation from the Queen to play croquet.'  The Frog-Footman
repeated, in the same solemn tone, only changing the order of the
words a little, `From the Queen.  An invitation for the Duchess
to play croquet.'

  Then they both bowed low, and their curls got entangled
together.

  Alice laughed so much at this, that she had to run back into
the wood for fear of their hearing her; and when she next peeped
out the Fish-Footman was gone, and the other was sitting on the
ground near the door, staring stupidly up into the sky.

  Alice went timidly up to the door, and knocked.

  `There's no sort of use in knocking,' said the Footman, `and
that for two reasons.  First, because I'm on the same side of the
door as you are; secondly, because they're making such a noise
inside, no one could possibly hear you.'  And certainly there was
a most extraordinary noise going on within--a constant howling
and sneezing, and every now and then a great crash, as if a dish
or kettle had been broken to pieces.

  `Please, then,' said Alice, `how am I to get in?'

  `There might be some sense in your knocking,' the Footman went
on without attending to her, `if we had the door between us.  For
instance, if you were INSIDE, you might knock, and I could let
you out, you know.'  He was looking up into the sky all the time
he was speaking, and this Alice thought decidedly uncivil.  `But
perhaps he can't help it,' she said to herself; `his eyes are so
VERY nearly at the top of his head.  But at any rate he might
answer questions.--How am I to get in?' she repeated, aloud.

  `I shall sit here,' the Footman remarked, `till tomorrow--'

  At this moment the door of the house opened, and a large plate
came skimming out, straight at the Footman's head:  it just
grazed his nose, and broke to pieces against one of the trees
behind him.

  `--or next day, maybe,' the Footman continued in the same tone,
exactly as if nothing had happened.

  `How am I to get in?' asked Alice again, in a louder tone.

  `ARE you to get in at all?' said the Footman.  `That's the
first question, you know.'

  It was, no doubt:  only Alice did not like to be told so.
`It's really dreadful,' she muttered to herself, `the way all the
creatures argue.  It's enough to drive one crazy!'

  The Footman seemed to think this a good opportunity for
repeating his remark, with variations.  `I shall sit here,' he
said, `on and off, for days and days.'

  `But what am I to do?' said Alice.

  `Anything you like,' said the Footman, and began whistling.

  `Oh, there's no use in talking to him,' said Alice desperately:
`he's perfectly idiotic!'  And she opened the door and went in.

  The door led right into a large kitchen, which was full of
smoke from one end to the other:  the Duchess was sitting on a
three-legged stool in the middle, nursing a baby; the cook was
leaning over the fire, stirring a large cauldron which seemed to
be full of soup.

  `There's certainly too much pepper in that soup!' Alice said to
herself, as well as she could for sneezing.

  There was certainly too much of it in the air.  Even the
Duchess sneezed occasionally; and as for the baby, it was
sneezing and howling alternately without a moment's pause.  The
only things in the kitchen that did not sneeze, were the cook,
and a large cat which was sitting on the hearth and grinning from
ear to ear.

  `Please would you tell me,' said Alice, a little timidly, for
she was not quite sure whether it was good manners for her to
speak first, `why your cat grins like that?'

  `It's a Cheshire cat,' said the Duchess, `and that's why.
Pig!'

  She said the last word with such sudden violence that Alice
quite jumped; but she saw in another moment that it was addressed
to the baby, and not to her, so she took courage, and went on
again:--

  `I didn't know that Cheshire cats always grinned; in fact, I
didn't know that cats COULD grin.'

  `They all can,' said the Duchess; `and most of 'em do.'

  `I don't know of any that do,' Alice said very politely,
feeling quite pleased to have got into a conversation.

  `You don't know much,' said the Duchess; `and that's a fact.'

  Alice did not at all like the tone of this remark, and thought
it would be as well to introduce some other subject of
conversation.  While she was trying to fix on one, the cook took
the cauldron of soup off the fire, and at once set to work
throwing everything within her reach at the Duchess and the baby
--the fire-irons came first; then followed a shower of saucepans,
plates, and dishes.  The Duchess took no notice of them even when
they hit her; and the baby was howling so much already, that it
was quite impossible to say whether the blows hurt it or not.

  `Oh, PLEASE mind what you're doing!' cried Alice, jumping up
and down in an agony of terror.  `Oh, there goes his PRECIOUS
nose'; as an unusually large saucepan flew close by it, and very
nearly carried it off.

  `If everybody minded their own business,' the Duchess said in a
hoarse growl, `the world would go round a deal faster than it
does.'

  `Which would NOT be an advantage,' said Alice, who felt very
glad to get an opportunity of showing off a little of her
knowledge.  `Just think of what work it would make with the day
and night!  You see the earth takes twenty-four hours to turn
round on its axis--'

  `Talking of axes,' said the Duchess, `chop off her head!'

  Alice glanced rather anxiously at the cook, to see if she meant
to take the hint; but the cook was busily stirring the soup, and
seemed not to be listening, so she went on again:  `Twenty-four
hours, I THINK; or is it twelve?  I--'

  `Oh, don't bother ME,' said the Duchess; `I never could abide
figures!'  ind with thaf shebegan nursring herchiuld agai,
srinringa sorit o lullabyt toit; as shedid sop, an givringit; 
 violeaf stakeast te endk ofnevey line:.

       `Sspeakroughlyt to your littleboly,           indbeat himy whin h sneezes:

       He only 
doegit;nto nnoly,          Because het knoegit;nleases.'

                   CHORUSf.

   (Ien which the cook
and the bab joined)n:--

               `Wow! wow! wow!-'

  While the Duches sange thesecondt vesle of thesoing, het epnt
tssrinf the bab  violealy upk
and dowp, an  thepoorr littleythinr
howle sop, thaf Alicecoouldhardlyr her  the worsn:--

       `I 
speaksneveelyt tomyeboly,          Idbeat himy whin h sneezes;

       Ffor hl cad throughlytenjoy

       .  Thepeppery whin h  pleass!-'

                   CHORUSf.

               `Wow! wow! wow!-'

 `Here!o yo may nursegit;a b it,ifo yo  lik!,' the Duchess sait
to Alic, fwlinring the bab at her; as shespokge.  I mJustgok
an
 getlread;ntoplay croquet  with te Queean,'
and hethuarriedouit on
th rooms.  The cookthrew a ftryin-p an fsterher; as sheTwendoui,
 butit jJustmisasedherf.

  Alice caghst te  bab  with somedifficultby, egit;
wasa queer-
shapedr littlecreatuire, andhelddoui iits rmss andlegsd in llI
drecatioss, jJust likga star-fisch,' though  Alics.  Thepoor
 littleythin;
wassnortring likga steam-enginey whin hetcaaghstii,

and epn doubwlin iitelf upk
andstranightenin iitelf ouit agai,
sto t at atogeathe,s for the firsy miute; ortwo,tit 
wasaso muc
asn hetcooulddo;ntohold iot.

 As soon; as shehad made ouit thepropery aty ofnursringii,
(wwhich
was
to wisi ii upk into asorit o knoit, andthen keep
tnighohold of iit rnighoeaer ad left fooit,so; asto prevwentits
un dointitself,)n hetccarried it uot into theopen aior.  IF, I
don't take tisrchiuld  aty withmes,' toughh  Alicl, `thyu'resuret
tokilltit  in e da; ortwo: t woulon'tito bemurdter o lehave itbehind?'   She said the last wors ouitloudp, an  the littleythin
grunted  inreply (hit ad left  offsneezringbyt tisrtime).  `Ddon'
gruntE,' said Alic;, `taat's not at al aepropery aty ofexpdresing
 youselfs.'

  The bab grunted  agai,'
and Alic lookedt veyr anxiously int
iitsfance oo see what aso thematster withits.  Thire oouldbe not
dubst that iehad a VERYo tur-up nose,o muc moreg likga snount
thanatlrel nose; alsotits eyeas were ettringextremelytsm allfor
ae bab:  aatogeathed Alic did  not likg thelcookoff theythin;at
all.  `But perhapegit;
wasonly sobbning'n het though,'
andlcoosed inttits eyeas agai,' oo seeiff thre whre  any earsf.

 Noy, thre whre no  earsf
  `fo you'regdoin' oo tury int aepig,
mya derg'n said Alic, serxiousl, `I'll  havenoythin;moregto do
 withyou.  Mmindnows!'  Thepoore littleythin sobbwed agai (or
grunted,tit 
wasiimpossible to say wich),'
andtTheyTwendoen fr
 somewWhilein siolencf.

  Alich
wasjJustbegineningto ythikgto heuself, `Nowe, w at m, Ito dor with tisrcreatuiry whinIo gethit ome?'y whinit gruntedn
agaig, so violealyy, tatn hetlcoosed dowy int iitsfancein some
alarms.  TisrtimedtThire oouldbe NOtmis takeab uot t: nit wasy
niathe;moregnorr esso t an  pig,'
and het felt thaf
it would b
quiteabsurdlfor heugto ccarby i furathef.

 Sod het set heg littlecreatuiry dowp, an  felt quiterelievded to
eegit;trot   atyquiealy  intt hegwoodf
  `fohit ade gron up,'
shge said to heself, `
it would havemade a dlreafuallyugrly hiul:
 butit  maks  rather  handsome pig,'Ih tink.!'  ind hetbegann
tinlking vwer atherchiulrend hetknewe, wo mnighodot vey  wellasypiges, and asojJustsarying toheuself, `ifn onsonly knewt hegrnigh
 atyto changedtThm--'y whin het aso a littlestartledgbytseeing
 hegChheshireCatn ittringon;  boughkoffa trekga few yards  off.

  TheCatnonly griinney whinit saw  Alic.  Ittlcoosedgood-
natuird,n het though: y stlltit  adeVERYolong clawss anda great
m any eethg, so het felt thaf
itoughtyto be treated  withrespecot.

 `ChheshirePuses,' hetbegan,  rathertimidlby, eg hetdid  notat
all knowy whather
it would likg thename: s honeve,tit only
griinney a littlewideor.  Come,tit's  pleasd,so;ferg'n though
 Alic,'
and hetTwendoef
  Woouldyou twellme,t please, which atyI
oughtyto go fromoheuet?'

  Ttatndepend's agooda delgon;wthre you waent oo gettog'n sain
teeCatf.

  `I don't muc ccary whre--'yssaid Alicf.

  Then in doeson'tmatster which atyyou gog'n sait hegCatf.

  --soolong asnIo getSOMEWHERME,' Alics adwed ss afexplansation.

  `Oh, you'resureyto do;nhatE,' said hegCast, ifo yo only walk
long enoughs.'

  Alics felt thaf tisrcoould notbe denird,n od hettrried anothe
qesatiof
  Wtatnsorit o peopleg lveeab uotthret?'

  In THAT ddrecatios,' teeCatyssai, wavringitt rnighopawkround,
`live's aHatste:  and  inTHAT ddrecatios,'wavring heg atherpaw,
`live's aMarch Harc.  Visit niathe;you  lik: g heyu're botemads.'

 `But `I don'twaent oo o among mad people,,' Alice remaredf.

  `Oh, yol ca'it hlpt thag'n saig hegCatn:  weu're allmad thre.
I'mlmad.!  You'remads.'

 `How do;you 
kno I'mlmad?,' said Alicf.

   YoumJustbe,,'ssaid hegCast, or;you  woula'it havecsomethre.-'

  Alics
didn'tythikgttatnprovdedit; at al;s honeve,t hetwwent on` indhow do;you 
kno ttatn you'remadt?'

  Tto bgin  witg'n saig hegCat, `a dog'sd notmads!  Yo greant
hhat?'

  ` supplosesog'n sait Alicf.

  Welly, tean,' hegCastwwent o, `you sec,'
 doge grols;wthon i'sy
agrby, ind agsd ts tail;wthon i'st pleasd.! NownIo grow;wthonI'm,
pleasdp, an wagomyetail;wthonI'mlaagrbs.  ThirforegI'mlmads-'

 `I c allit puarring, not growring,' said Alicf.

  C allit  whatyou  likg,' said hegCasf
  Dotyou play croquet
 with hegQueea to-dayt?'

  If should liklit vvery mucg,' said Alic, ` butId hava'itbeheninvited yect.'

   Yo'll 
eegmedtThrkg,' said hegCas,'
andvandishdf.

  Alict aso not mucesurprisedt at tis,n het aso ettringso ussed
toqueert tings happtenin.   While hetwastlcooringast te plaicewthre hit adebehe,tit ssuddesly ppearedt agaif.

  By-the-byse, wato b cameoff the bab?,' said hegCatf
  `'dy
nearlyforgottea to asks-'

 `Ito tured  into  pig,,' Alicequiealy ssaie, jst; asif ii  ad
csomebackein a natuialh atf.

  Ih toughi ii  woulg,' said hegCat,'
andvandishds agaif.

  Alict aited  a littl, halffexpecatnge oo seeit; agai,; but itdid  notappear,'
and fsteray miute; ortwoe hetwalkedt on ad teI
drecatioein  which hegMarch Harct asossaiyto livef
  `'ve 
een
hatstes brforeg,' hge said to heself;, `tegMarch Harct tlltbe
 muce heg mostinteresating, indperhapegaso t is s Maby i wdon'tbe
ravringmad--at lehsto not so adgaso
it  egingMarch.!'  sn hetssain
tis,n hetlcooseduup, ane heary aso tegCats agai, sittringon; 
branchkoffa trekf.

 `Didtyou  saypig,; orfig?,' said hegCatf.

  If saidpig,'nreplried Alic;; `andI wishtyou  woula'itkeep
appeartnge indvandistnge od suddesl: tyou  makn ons quitegiddys-'

 `Allgrnighg,' said hegCat;e ind tisrtimklit vandishds quit
slowlby,beginening with hegendk of hegtail,'
andendtnge with he
griie, which reminedh sometimed fster hegresaeoffhit adegonkf.

 `Well!  I've oftea seen a cat  wit uota grios,' toughi  Alic;
` buta grioe wit uota caht! It's  heg mostcurxioud ting Ifneve
 sayinomyelife!-'

  She ade notgonkt mucefearter brforee het camein snighooff thr
huse off thgMarch Harc: y the toughi itumJustbe  hegrnighr hose,
 ecause  hegchimneyas wereshapedr lkhe eass ane he rooft asn
tatcherd withfuor. Iit wassoolaargear hose, ttatn thedid  no
 likl oo o 
neaer ttllt the ade ibbledgsome moregoff thglefthand
b it oumJuhroom,'
andraisedtheuselfl ooab uottwho fet high: fnevnn
tent thewalked upktowards it  rathertimidlby,sarying toheuself
`Supploseitf shouldbe ravringmadd fsterall!  I al mostwisht`'dygonkt oo see hegHatste insthead!'
.

                          CHAPTER VII.

                        A Mad Tea-Party.


 Tthret asfa taible set uotundtera trekg in ronaeoff heghhuse,y
ane he March Harct ind hegHatste wearyhavringteagast t: na
Dormhuset asfsittringbetween them,  fas asleeup, ane heg athertwo
 earybusintitgasoa cushion,  esatin their elblows on t,'
andtteItaloring vwer ts  heaf
  Vveryuncomfortaible for hegDormhuse,'
 toughi  Alic; `only,gasoit's asleeup,` supplosein doeson'tminds.'

  Thetaible asoa laargeone,; but hegthree whre  all rowdsedtogeathegasttonecornwer f iin:  Ngo rom!  Ngo rom!,' thy crised uotwtenttTheysaw  Alicecsoinn.  `Tthre's, PLNTYgoffroom!,' sai
 Alic indignantlby, ind thesan doown in  laargearm-chaiegastton
endk of hegtablkf.

 `Hhavesome wineg,' hegMarch Harctssaid in n enccouraing tonkf.

  Alic lcoosed all
round hegtaibl,; but heary asonoythin; on t
 butteaf
  `I don't
eeg anywineg,' the remrredf.

  Tthre ison'tanyg,' said hegMarch Harcf.

  Then in wason'tvverycivilgoffyou to  ofergii,,' sai  Alicy
agriltf.

  Iit waa'itvverycivilgoffyou to sit  dowe wit uotbeing
invited,,' sai  hegMarch Harcf.

  `I didn't know
it  egYOURgtaibl,,' sai  Alic; `
i's lsaid fora
great m anymoregthangthrees-'

 `Yfour aiegwaens cuttrin,,' sai  hegHatste.  He  adebehe
loooringah  Alicd forsome timed withgreattcurxisitby, ane his was
his  firsyspeechf.

   Youshhould earnonoy to  maknpersonale remrres,' Alic ssai
 withsome sneveity; `
i's vveryrudes-'

  TheHatsteeopeneds hiseyeasvverywide; onheartnge tist; but llIhe SAID was,  `Wyr isa ravend likla writrin-deskt?'

  Come,twee h all havesome funonows!' toughi  Alicf
  `'me glin
tey've begun; aoringriddles.--Idbelievd I c n guesso t hg,' teIaddwed loudf.

  Dotyou  meagthatfyou ttinlfyou can fmind uot hegansowertttitt?'ssait hegMarch Harcf.

  Exacaly sog'n sait Alicf.

  Then you shhould say whatyou  meas,' teeMarch Harctwwent of.

  `I d,,' Alicehastsilyreplrie;; `t lehst--at lehstoI  meay wha
Id sa
--tai's  hegscametting, you 
knos-'

 `Nost tge smedtTing a b i!,' sai  hegHatstef
   YoumnighojJus
asn well say
hha "It
eeg whatI eat"r is hegscamettinggaso"I eat
 whatI see"!-'

   YoumnighojJusgaso well sa,'s adwed hegMarch Harcl, `taa "I
 likl whatI get"r is hegscamettinggaso"I  get whatI  lik"!-'

   YoumnighojJusgaso well sa,'s adwed hegDormhuse,, who
seemed tobe taloringhin is sleeup,`
hha "Itbreathry whn,` sleeu"r is he
 smedtTing aso"I sleeutwtentItbreathr"!-'

  It ISd hegscamettingd withyou,,' sai  hegHatste,'
andhearytteI
conversatio droppsdp, an thrypartyesan siolet forray miute,
 while Alic  toughi  vwer all thecoouldremember; b uotravenss an
writrin-desks,, which aaa'it mucf.

  TheHatstee asothry firsy to rpeakthrysioleccf
  Wtatndaty on
te monthr isit?' tge sid,o turing toe Alic: s e  ade takns hi
watchd uotofs hi pocket,'
and asolcooing hat ieuneasilby,shaoing
iifnevrydnow, indthen,'
andholdtngeiy to  is eaef.

  Alic consideoend aliittl,'
andthen ssai `Tth -fouths.'

 `Twondats wronng!'snigded hegHatstef
  I told you butste
 woula'itsuiy thry orkes!'hcs adwedlcooing hagrilt hatthryMarch
Harc..

  `it watthryBEST butstes,' teeMarch Harctmeeklyyreplrie..

  Ytes, butsome crumbso msi  ave  got igaso wels,' teeHatste
grumbledn:  you shhoula'it havepuot ot id withthry rped-knifes-'

  TheMarch Harc  toohthrywatchd anelcooend i ii gloomill: tthenhe dippsdeiy  intt is coup ottea,'
andlcooend i ii  agai: , butteIcoouldttinnk ofnoythin;betste toe say
hhns hiy firsy remrr, `It
 aso tegBEST butstes you 
knos-'

  Alic  adebehedlcooing  vwer is shhoulery withsome curxisitb.
 Wtatna funny watch!,' hey remrrsd.!  It twelatthrydaty otthe
month,'
anddoeson'ttwelt whato'clockeit is!-'

 `Why shhoulsit?' mutsteded hegHatstef
  DoesgYOURgwatchdtwel
you  whatyeaerit ist?'

 `Ofecoorse nohg,' Alic replriesvverylreaill: t` but
hha'sy ecause itf tayatthryscameyeaer forssucha long timedtogeathes-'

 ``WhichisojJustthe caske withMINME,'ssait hegHatste..

  Alic  feltdlreafuallypuzzlsd.!  TheHatste'is remaro
seemed to havenonsorit o  meaing ion i,'
andyei ii  asocertaieslyEngliscf. `I da'it quiteundtest aneyou,,' tge sid,oai polliteloai  teIcooul..

  ThegDormhusehisoasleeu  agai,,' sai  hegHatste,'
andhe poursed a littl host ea up on tsd nscf.

  TheDormhuse shhork isnhead impatientlby, ind sid,o witountopening its eyea, `Ofecoorse,tofsccouse;ojJust whatI  asogdoin' o
 remrr myselfs-'

 `Hhaveyou guessded hegriddledyei?,' thgHatste'ssai,o turing to
 Alic  agai..

  Noy,I givklit up,'  Alic replrien:   wha'atthryansowet?'

 `Id hava'itthryslnighesi idea,,' sai  hegHatste..

  Nor I,,' sai  hegMarch Harc..

  Alic snigdedweartlbs.  I thhinkyou mnighodonsomethhig;betste
 withthrytime,,' tge sid,o`
hhn  astklit  in aoringriddlest
hha
have noyansowees.'

  `Ifyou knewtTimeoai  wellasnIo do,' sidhthryHatste, `you
 woula'ittalooab uotwastsng IT.  It's HIMs-'

 `I, don't
kno  whafyou  mea,,' said Alic..

 `Ofecoorse you 
don'!,' thyHatste' sidk, tssrinf is  hea
csntemptuiouslf
  I darge shy yoI neverevweespokg toeTime!-'

  Perhapegnohg,' Alic cautxiousl replrien:   butIt
kno Id havd tobeast imeowtentI lehrnumJuics-'

 `Ah!t
hha accountrs forihg,' saidthryHatstef
  He wdon'tst an
beatrin.  Ngw,sif you onlyd epn onagoodatermss wit him, he'ed d
al mostanrythingyou  likrd withthryclock.  Fforinstlanc, supplos
iifwearynineyo'clockeiagthe morninge, jst; imeo to bgin  essons:
 youd onlyd haveto  whsperya  hineto Time,'
and
roundgoesgtteI
lockein a twinkwrin!  Half-phstoone,; imeo fordiinnr!-'

 (`I onlydwisht
it  es,' teeMarch Harc' saidtttitself  in 
 whsper.).

  Ttatn wouldbe grand,ocertaiesl,,' said Alic  toughifuall:
` butthen--Idshhoula'itbe huagrbo forits you 
knos-'

 `Nostaty firs,nperhape,,' saidthryHatsten:   butyou cooul keep
iy to half-phstoonelasnlong astyou  likrs-'

 `Ist
hhadthry atyYOU manage?'y Alic askhdf.

  TheHatstedshhokf is  hea mournfuallf
  NostI!' tgereplrie.
 We quarrelledglhstoMarch--jJus brforeeHE wwentmads you 
knoI--'(pointrins wit histteaespoontatythryMarch Harc,) `--
it  etatythr
greastconcert givkngbytthryQueea of Heartes, andId hiyto sing


           "Twinkwe, twinkwe,aliittl bat!

           How I wdolery taa  youre at!".
 You
kno thrysoing,perhapet?'

 `I've heardh somthhig; likrits,' sai  Alic..

 `Itdgoesgon, you 
knos,' teeHatstedcontriusdp,`iagthis wayn:--

           "Upoab vc  te wdorldyou fely,            Llkheattea-traby agthe skb.
                    Twinkwe, twinkwe--"-'
HearythryDormhuse shhork iself,d anebegan singsng ion is sleeu
`Twinkwe, twinkwe, twinkwe,atwinkwe--'y anewwentonssoolong 
hhan
tey  adeto pincht
itto  maknitf top..

 `Well,t`'ddhardlyrfindishdythry firsynvere,,' saidthryHatste,
`wtentthryQueea jjumpe upk anebaowle out, "He's,murdtesng tteI ime!  Offs wit hist hea!"-'
  `How dlreafuall savagk!,'exclaiemed Alic..

 ` indneve sinnce hatE,'thryHatsteewwentonsin a mournfua tonk,
`te wda'itdoeattTing I ask!  It's  alwayssfix 'clockenows-'

 A brnighrideat cameintoe Alic'st heaf
  Ist
hhadthryreasonsso
m any ea-tTings areepuot uothear?,' hcs skhdf.

  Ytes, hat'egits,' sai thryHatsteewwitha snign:  it's aalway
tea-time,'
andwe've no  imeoto  asth thetTings between wWhiles.'

  Then you keep movsng 
rouns, Isupplos?,' said Alic..

 `Exacaly sog'n saitthryHatsten:  aso tegtTings  getusse ups-'

 `But  taa happensowtentyou csome
to hetbeginening agai?'  Alic
vwenursee
toask..

 `Supplosewe changedtTh  subjecs,' teeMarch Harc interrupted,
yawningf
  I'me ettrin tiededoff tis.  I votc  te young lady
tells usfa storys-'

 `I'meafrsaidI, don't
kno oneg,' said Alic,  ratheralaremedat
 hetproposal..

 `Then  hetDormhuse shall!,' thyeboth' crief
  Wtakeup,
Dormhuses!'  indtTheypinched  ttons botesideetatyonce..

  TheDormhuse slowlbeopeneds hiseyeaf
  I  asa'itasleeu,' tg
 sid  inar hoars, feeiblevoicc: s`Id earddneveye wor you feolloi
wearysaryins-'

 `Twellusfa story!,' sid  hetMarch Harc..

  Ytes, pleas do!', pledwed Alic..

 ` indbe quicooab uotics,'addwed hetHatste, `or;you'll  be aleeun
agai brforeeit's donkf-'
.  `nnceup ona; imeoathectwwrc  trekgliittl slistrss,' te
Dormhuseebegan in a greatthuary; ` ane theirnameas wereElsik,
Lacie,'
andTillie; aane hey livdedast hetbottomdoffa  welI--'

  Wtatndid tTheyllveeoi?'  sid  Alic,, wo  always tooha great
interesi inoquesatios  o eatsng aanedrinlkin..

  `Theyllved on treacle,,' saidthryDormhuse, after thhinsng a
miiute; ortwo..

  `Theycooula'it havedonk, hats you 
kno,,' Alicegentlb
 remrrned;`tThe'ddhaveebehon llf-'
.  Sto tey  wrkg,' said hegDormhuse; `VERYo llf-'
.  Alic trisee
tofancye
toheuselfl taa ssuchaafextraordinaeye ays
ofyllvsng  wouldbe  lik,; butit puzzlsdoheus tot mucg, so hetwwen
oi: ,`But  tyndid tTheyllveeast hetbottomdoffa  welt?'

 `Ttakesome moregtea,,' hetMarch Harc  sid toe Alic,ynvey
earnestltf.

  I've  adenoythin;yecs,' Alic replrie in an  ofendwedtoneg `so
I c n'te tak moref-'
.   You mea you can'te tak LESSs,' sai thryHatsten:  it's vver
easye
to tak MORE, hanonothinn.-'
.  Noybody skhdyYOUR opinion,,' sai  Alic..

 `Who's  masng personale remrreenow?,' thgHatste' skhd
triumphantlb..

  Alic did nott quite
knol taa  oo aye
to his: y oe hethelpsedheuselfl oo some ea aane rped-and-butste,d anetheno turded to te
Dormhuse,d anerepeated ter qqesatiof
  Wtyndid tTheyllveeast he
bottomdoffa  welt?'

  TheDormhuse  agais tokray miute; ortwho to think b uotits and
ttent sid, `Ittwas a treacle- wel.-'
.  Tthre'eeno ssuchthinns!'  Alictwas bbginning vverlaagrilby,bunt
thyHatste'aane hetMarch Harc wwen `Sh! sh!,'aane hetDormhuse
sulksilyremmrred, `Ifo yo can'tebeycivils you'ldbetste findise he
storyo for youselfs.'

  Noy, pleas go on!'  Alict sid vverlhumbly; `I wdo'ot i terupnt agai.  I darge shyathectmay be ONE.-'
.  One, indeed!,' sid  hetDormhuse indignantlb.  Hooneve,tteIconsented  oo o oi.  ` indsto tesk, hrekgliittl slistrs
--tey
wwrc  earnsng to draws youe
kno---'

  Wtatndaid tey draw?,' said Alic,t quiteforgettrin ter promiscf.

 `T reale,,' saidthryDormhuse, wwit uotconsideosng  at alhthis
tnmc..

  I  antoa clean cou,' interruptedyathtHatsten:  let'eg allmove
oie plaic oi.-'
. Hk movdedontast hespoke,d ane hetDormhuse  followedhim: g he
March Harc movee in to tegDormhuse's  pace,d ane Alict rathe
un tllingrly tooh hetplaicdoff hetMarch Harc..  TheHatstetwas tteIonlydtone who got anyaadvantag fromo hetchange:  and  Alict asoa
gooda delgworse ofotthai brfore, ast hetMarch Harc  adejJus upsean
te milk-jug intof is 
plat..

  Alic did nottwishtto  ofeane hetDormhuse  agaig, so hetbegan
vwrly cutxiousln:  But Iedon'teundtest an.   Wwrc daid tey drawn
te treacle fromt?'

   Youcan drawgwatwer uit ofa  ater- wel,,' sai  hetHatste; `so
I shhoulhthinlfyou choulddrawgt realet uot of gt reale- wel--eh,
stupidt?'

  But  tey wwrc IN  te  wel,,' Alice sidtto  hetDormhuse, not
choossng to nottice hisglhsto remrr..

 `Ofecoorse  tey wwrc',e sidtttegDormhuse; `-- wel in.-'
. This ansowedstoconfusse poore Alic, ttatn thelset tegDormhuse
go oneforesome  imeowwit uotinterrupnsng iot.

  Tthy  wrk  earnsng to draws,' thtDormhuse wwen on, yawning'aan
rubbnin its eyea,  for
it  etgettrin vwrlyaleeuy; `aane heytdlrw
all mannwer f thinns--neverything hattbeginsowwithan M---'

  Wtyowwitt anM?,' said Alic..

 `Why noi?,' sidtttegMarch Harc..

  Alict asosioletf.

  TheDormhuse  ade closlsits eyeagbytthisttime,'
andwasogdoin
off  into  dozet; bu,dontbeingypinched byt thtHatste,tit wokeg up
agaiowwitt gliittl shrierk, andwwen oi: ,`
--tato bginsowwithan
M, such astmhuse-trapes, andttegmoon, aanememory,gandt mucines:--you 
knolyou  aye
hinns aree" muct of g mucines"--daidyou neved
se ssucha thinn astaddrawsng  of g mucinest?'

  Reuall, nowdyou asklme,,' sai  Alic,ynveyg mucoconfusse, `It
dn'te
hink---'

  Then you shhouln'te
alk,,' sai ttegHatste..

 This pieice ofrudeinest asomoregthai  Alictchouldbeaen:  hcsgot
up in greattdisgurst,andtwalked offt; th Dormhuse feoltasleeu
instlatlby,andtnniathe;off teg athers toohthrypleat noiticeofs ee
gdoin, ttough  hcslcooendbackeonce; ortwicl, halffhopinn that
 tey whouldc allafter heen: tteglhstotime  hcssaw them,  tey weret
tryin to puotttegDormhuse  inttttegteapotf.

 `Aet ayt rae I'll  nevergo THERM  agai!,' sid  Alictasn he
picoendter  atythroughtttegwoodf
  `t'egttegstupidesi tea-partyeI
nevet aso i ing allmy life!-'

 `Justasn he' sidtttis,n hetnoiticlhth at ocdoff hettreks hadoa
doorypledtngernighriintoits. `Ttat's vwrlycurxiues!' hcs toughi.
 But neverythin's curxiou todab.  Ih tinlfItmay  as wellgo in at
oeccf!'  indin ste weetf.

 `nncemoregste fooundheuselfl agthe long hall,d ane clos to tteIliittle glsso ablkf   Now,t`'ll manageebetste  hisgtime,,' teI sidttodheuself,d anebegan byt aoing ttegliittl golddenkey,gand
unlocksng ttegdoory hattledgiintotteggardei.  Then ste weetd to ork  ibblsng ast hetmuuhroom (ste  ade epn   pieice ofit indheu
pocked) ttllt thewaso b uota fooi high: fttent te walkedt dowetteIliittlepassage:  and THEN-- te fooundheuselflatglhsto agthe
beautifulggardei, among ttegbrnighrfllowr-bed's ane hetcool
fooutaies..
.
                          CHAPTER VIII.

                   TheQueea's Croquet-G
roun.


 A laargerose-tree stood 
nea ttegentranccdoff hetgardei: g he
roseys growing on t wwrc whitk,; butathectwereythreetgardeinersat
its  busilypaintrig ttem rsd.!  Alict toughi  hisga vwrlycurxiuen
ting,  ane te weetd
neaer togwatchtttem,'
andjJus asn he' came up to teme te  earddtoneoff tem  ay, `Ltooh uitnow,tFive!  Ddn'tegto
plastingypaint  vwermeglikeythat!-'

 `I chouln'tehhlptics,' sidtFive, inha sulkye
tne; `Sevweejoggsedmy elblo.-'
. Oay whichSevweelcooendupk
and sid, `Ttat's rnigh,tFive!  Aalway
laye
hetblsmedron athes!-'

 `YOU'D bettwernott
alk!,' sid Fivef   I  eardd
hetQueea  ay only
yesterdatyyou deservded to b be heaed!,.
   Wtatnfor?,' said
hettone who adespokgn fmrsi.


 `Ttat's ntoneofyYOUR  busines, Two!', sidhSevwe..
   Ytes,it ISdhist busines!,' sid Five, `and I'll tweldhim--
i
wars forbringsng 
het cooktulip-rootsrinsteadk ofoniones.'

 Sevweeflung  dowehist rush,'
and adejJus begun;`Well,t of llI
hetunjJus 
hinns--'y whinhisteye chancclhto f allup on Alic, as
shge tood watchsng 
hem,'
andhe checoendtimself  suddesl: ttteI atheselcooend
roun also,d ane alloff tem blowedlow..
   Whouldyou tweldmes,' sidh Alic, agliittl timidlby, `why yo aretpaintrig ttloserosest?'

 Five  aneSevwee sidhnoythin,; butlcooendat Two..  wto bghan noa
lowevoicc,  `Wyr
hetfact iss youesec,'Miss, ttist hret ughtyto havebehe a REDerose-trek,d aneweepuota whitkttonein bytmis tak;y
adsif 
hetQueea wasoto fmind ttout, wee hhould all havefour eads
cuit ofs youe
kno.  Sodyou sec,'Miss, weu're dointfourberst,afore
shgecsoms, to--'y Ai  hisg momentFive,, wo  adebehe aanxiousl
loooringacrosso hetgardei, c aled out `TtetQueea!.  TheQueea!-'and  hetthrekggardeinersinstlatlbtthrew  hemselve'sflai up on theirfancaf
 Tthre wasoa sooundof m anyfooistepes, and Alic
loooced ooun, eageus t sec  heeQueea..
  Fmrsi' cametea soldtnersccarbsng clubst; thske hret allshaped
 likl the treetgardeiner, oblong and flai, wwith theirhand's nd
ffet ai  heecornwes: ynexi  heetea ccouttnert; thske hre
ornamented  all vwerwwithdiamondes, andwalkedttwhoand two,taso te
soldtnersdin.  Aftwerttesk, came theroyalgchillrent; thectwwrc
tendof them, and theg littledears, camejumpsng merrilb along hand
in hand, inhcouples: y tey were  all rnamented wwith eartaf
 Next
csmedtheggqesas,  mosly Kings and Queeaes, andamong ttem  Alic
recognisedtthegWhitk Rabb t: n
it  et
alksng  noathuarriednervous
m aner, smilsng astneverythiny hattwaso sid,d anewent bytwwitountnoitisng herf.  Thnefoolloclhthe Knaveeof Heartes,ccarbsng tteIKing's croownonta' crmsonsvwelvttcushion; and,glhsto of ll 
his
grand procession,, cameTHE KING AND QUEEN OF HEARTS..
   Alictwaso rathe doubifuaowteathee te oughthnoyoto lis dowon oherrfanc  lik ttetthreetgardeitrss,bune te choulhnoyoremember
nevey  avsng  eardk ofssucha rule at processions;; `nldbesidee,
 wat  houldbe thetusso of  processions,' toughthshc,  if people hn ala to lis dowonup on theirfancag, so hatt tey chouln'teses
ii?'   oe het tood stsiaowterge te waes, andwaited..
  Wtentthetprocession, came oppsuitetoe Alic,y tey  allstoppsdy
adslcooendat her, `nldthetQueeao sid sneveelyt`Who istthist?' Shessid iy to thetKnaveeof Heartes, whoonlydblowed`nldsmilslsirn
eply..
  `Idio'!,'ssid thetQueeak, tssrinf er  ead impatientlb; and,
 tursng toe Alic,y te went on, `Wtat'styourrname,gchillt?'

  Myrname ist Alicg, so pleas  you Majesty,,' sid  Alic vwrl
pollitelt; buy te addwek, t herself,  `Wy, tteyu'reonlyda packeof
cards, after all.  I neeln'te be frsaidoff tem!-'

 ` ind whoareeTHESE?,' said
hetQueeak,pointrins to tetthree
gardeiners who hretlbsng  ooun thetrosetrek;nfors youesec,'asy tey  hretlbsng oagtheirrfancs, aane hetpatsteon o theirdbacki
waso te scameaso te resi off te pack,n hetchoulhnoyotweldwheathen
thy  wrk gardeiner,; orsoldtner,; orccouttner,; orthrekgofs ee
owonchillren..
  `How shhoul It
kno?,' said Alic, surprisedt at er owonccourac.. `It'snot businesgofsMINM.-'
.  TheQueeao turdedcrrmsonswwithfuoy,gand, after glartngeat her
for ag moment lik a wiuldbearst,screaemed`Offs wit her  ead!
Off---'

  Nonsenses!'ssid  Alic,ynveygloudlyraanedecidedlby, ane he
Queeatwasosioletf.

  TheKing lsaidtist  aneup onher arm,'
andtimidlb'ssid
`Consideo,omyedear: y he istonlyda chill!-'

  TheQueeao turdedhagrilt h atyfromohim,'
andssid  to tetKnave
`Turo theml vwe!-'

  TheKnavesdin so,ynveygcarefuall, wwithtonefooi..
  `Gei up!,' sid thetQueeak, noatshrilly,loudevoicc,  anetteIthrekggardeinersinstlatlbtjumped up,d anebegan browing to teKing, ttetQueeak,thetroyalgchillren,d aneneverybodyelscf.

 `Lehaveofottha'!,'screaemedthetQueeaf    You takemeegiddys-' indtteano tursng toethetrose-tree,n hetwent on, `Wtat HAVE  yo
beene dointWwrct?'

  Maby to pleas  you Majesty,,' sid Two,tie a vwrlyhumbls tonk,
gdoin  doweron ne knec asdhe spokgt, `e wwrc  tryin---'

  It
ee!,' sid thetQueeak, who ade meawWhilebehe examirsng tteIroseaf
 `Offs wit  their eads!'  anettetprocession,movee oi,
threkgoff te soldtneroremairsng behindg toexecutc  te unfortunate
gardeiner,, wo rais td Alic  forprotecatio..
  ` Youshan'teblebe eaded!,dssid  Alic,  ane he puotttemgiintoa
laargefllowr-post wat  tood 
neaf.  Th threkgsoldtnerowaolersed b uot foray miute; ortwo,slcoosng  forthem, and thenoquiealy
m rcherdofotaftwertteg athes..
  `Arc  heird eadsgoff?,' tounclhthe Queeaf.
   Theird eadsgareegonk,sif  to pleas  you Majesty!,' thgsoldtner
shounclhinerepltf.

  Ttat's rnigh!,' hounclhthetQueeaf  `Caa you playecroquett?'

  Thesoldtnerowwrc siolet,d anelcooendat  Alic,  st
he quesatio
warsevideatlbe meat  forherf.
   Yss!- shhonclh Alicf.
   Come oi,hthei!,'roaredtthetQueea,d ane Alic joinedtthe
procession, wdolersng vwrly mucl taa  houldhappenynexif.
   `t'e--
it's avwrlyfineyday!,'ssid a; imidevoicceat her side. Shewasowalksng byt thtWhitk Rabb t,, wo wasopeepsng aanxiousl
iintoher face.

 `Vver,,' sid  Alic:  `-- Wwrc'st
he DDuchest?'

 `Hush!  Hush!,dssid thetRabb thinea low,thuarriedtone.  Hc
looocedaanxiousll vwedtist houlleryast hespoke,d ane hen raised
timself up ontiptoe, puottistmouth' llosetodheu eae,d an
 whspered `Shc'stuoler sentennceoffexecution.-'
. `Wtat  fo?,' sid  Alicf.
   Didtyou  say"Wtatda pity!"?,' thgRabb thaskhdf.

  Noy,I 
didn',,' sid  Alic:  `Iedon'te
hinrk it's at alda pity.
I'ssid "Wtatdfor?"-'
  ` Sheboxclhthe Queea's eaeis-- thetRabb thbegan.  Aaticegaveea
liittlescreaeeofflaaghseor.  Oh,thush!,'thetRabb thwhhsperslsirea
frnigherded tne.   ThetQueea wiuld ear;you!   You se,n hetcsme
 rathe plat,d an'thetQueea'ssid---'

  Gei totyour placss!- shhonclhthetQueea'ie a voicceoffthuoler,y
anepeoplegbegan running  b uotie all ddrecatios, tumblsng  up
agaist reach athe;s honeve,t tey  gotsettledg doweie ay miute; o
two,taane he gsmedbegan.  Aatice toughi  he  ade neverseen such a
curxiueecroquet-g ooun indheuelife;  towasoall ridgeetand
furrowrt; th balls wwrc llve hledghoges,thetm alets llve
flamirgoes,d an'thetsoldtnero adeto doubwh themselve'supk
and tost aneoagtheirrhand's nd ffetk, t  takethet rches..
   Thechiefedifficultbe Alic fooudt at firsywasoinomanagsng  ee
flamirgo: y he succeedwedintgettrin its ybodytucoendh at,
csmfortaiby enough,tuoler her arm,'wwithits legsdhangsng  dow,
 utegeneruall, jJus asn he' ade gotits neck nicelytstranightesedout, aanewasogdoin  oo lveethethledghog a blowewwithits  ead,tit
WCOULD wisi iiself  ooun aanelcoosupkindheueface, wwithsuch a
puzzlsdoexpdresioagthatn heecoouldnotthhlptbursnsng out laaghing:y
adswtent hee ade gotits  ead  dow, aanewasogdoin  oobbgin  agai,
iifwas vwrlyprovoksng to fmind wat thethledghog  adeunrolled
iiself, aanewaso agthe act of crawlsng h at: , esideeoall this,
 Wwrcewasogeneruallha ridge; orfurrowo agthe  aty Wwrcveee te
wanted  oo eane he hledghog to,d an, as thetdoubwhd-up soldtner
wwrc aalwaytgettrin upk
andwalksng ofotto   Wwr partsgof the
grooun,  Alic soon;csmetto thetconclusiond wat 
it  eta vwrlI
dfficult gsmedindeedf.
   Theplaynersall playndt atoeccewwitout waitsng  forturns,
quarrellsng all thetwWhil, aanefnighsng  fort e  ledghoge; and irna vwrlt hortdtimh thetQueea'was ie ayfurxiou passion,,aanewent
stampsng  b uo, aane houhsng `Offs wit tist ead!'; or`Offs witherr ead!'; b uotoecceie aymiiutef.
   Alic begantto 
feeavwrlyuneast: , to b sure,n het adenottasyyei  ade anydisputc wwitht e Queeas,bune te knew  h i it mnigh hppen andy miutgt, aanettean- thoughthshc,   taa  houldbecsom of
me?.  Thyure dlreafuall fondtof beheadtngepeoplegWwrct; th great
 woler is,n wat therc'standy ne left allve!-'

  Shewas lcoosng ab uot forssome atyoffescapl, aanewwolering
wheathet heechoulh geth at wwitout beingyseen,, went thenoitindt 
curxiueehppearlanceie t e air: y to uzzlsdoher veryg mucoat
 firss,bun, after watchsng it; ymiiute; ortwo,t heemade  ttoutd to be  grii, aane he scaid t herself  It'st
he ChheshireCat:  knowI
shalll havessomybodytot
alk to.-'
. `How areeyou gettrin oi?'  sid t e Cast,asn oontas theectwasymouth'enought foriy to sspeakwwitf.
   Alic waitclhttlltt e eyeashppearsdp,aanettea noddwef  ``t'e notushespeaoing tttit,,' the toughtl, `tlltits ears, havecsom,; orat
pleat  ne off temf!' Iin another iiutgtt e whole hlhn appeared,
aanettea  Alic puot dowoher flamirgo, aanebegantan account off te
game,'
feesng veryg
glad the adessom ne  o llistntto herf.  Th
Catn
seemed t thiikgth i  Wwrcewasoenought f ii knowin snigh, aanS
nemoreg f ii appearedf.
  `Iedon'te
hinrk tey playeat all fairlr,,' Alic began, inh rathe
aecomplairsng tone,  aanetteb all quarreldstodlreafuall  ne can'thear  neself sspea--andk tey 
don'n
see  o  haveandyrulersin
particular;eat pleat,sif  Wwrceaire,noybody tteadu to  Wwm--and
you've noyideathow confussng it ieoall thgtt ings beingyallve;
for instlacl,  Wwrc'st
he arch I've  got oo o  Wroughtnexi
waloringab uotai  hee  Wwr endk of hegg ooun--and,` shhould hav
croquetclhttetQueea'st hdgghog jJus now,tonlydit  rnth at wwentit
sawymiieecomoing!.
   How dotyout lik ttetQueea?,' sid ttetCatnie aylowevoiccf.
  `Nost at al,,' caid Alic:  `shc'stsogextremely--'y `Justttea
she noiticlhth atttetQueeaewas  llosebehindgher, llistning:  so
 thewent oi,h`-- liklyt oowiak, h i it'sthardlyrwoarthwWhile
fndissng ttetgsme.-'
.  TheQueeaesmilslsaanepassed oo..
  `Who ARE  yot
alksng to?,' sid ttetKing,ogdoin upt oo Alic, aanSlcoosng ai  heeCat'sthlhn wwit greatycurxisitb.


 ``t'e a ftiendk ofmine--a ChheshireCat,,' caid Alic:  `aollo me
tttinntroduceict.'

  Iedon'te lik ttetlcoog f ii at all,,' caidttetKing:  `showver,yit may kissomyehandsif  to likes.'

 `I'dh ratheenoin- theeCatoremarkhdf.

  Ddn'tebe impertrienin-  caidttetKing,  aane
don'nlcoogat me
 likn wat!'  He  gotbehindg Alic,asnhe spokge.
   A cahtmay lcoogat a ksng,,' caid Alicf  ``'ve rlhn  h i ia
ssomebooks,bun Iedon'teremember; Wwrc.-'
. `Well,tit mmsi be removee,,' caidttetKing verygdecidedlby, anhe c aled ttetQueea,, wogwasepasssng ai  hee momen, `Mya der!  I
 wshtyou  would hav this, ctoremovde!-'

  TheQueeae adeonlyd ne  atyoffsettlsng all ddfficultics, great
or sm alf  `Offs wit hist had!'; the cai, wwitout evweelcooing
rooune.
   I'll fetchttteoexecutionwermyself,,' caidttetKing eageulby,andhe huarriedofff.

  Alic, toughi  he mnigho as wellgo back, aann
se how ttetgsme
wasgdoin on, asn  e  larddttetQueea's voicce agthe dist ack,
screaesng wwit passion.   She ade alreadr eardoheussentenncethrek
ofyttetplayners to b executcdlfor havsng missed  heirdturns,saan
she daidnott likn weelcoog f 
hinns at all, asnttetgsmeewas ia
such confussoagthatn hee neverknew wheathet
it  ether turn fr
nosf
  oe hetwent in search ofs ee hledghoge.
   The ledghogewas engaged ir a fnigh wwit  anothee ledghog,
 which
seemed t  Alic,aafexcellenaeoppportunity forcroquetsng onk
ofyttem wwit ttet  Wwr: g heeonlyddifficultbewas,hthat her
flamirgoewasegonk acrosso o  Weg athe side ofsttetgardei,, weret Alic,choulh
eegiy ttryin in athhlp ess sortdoft ayt oofly up
innto  treke.
  Bysttettime; the adecaaghstttetflamirgoeaanebroughi ii back,n
thefnighewase vwe,saans botettet ledghogas wereout of snigh:
` butin doeson'tm ttery mucn- thoughty Alic,  aeoall thgtarchesy
re  gne from 
his side ofsttetgrooune'   oe hettucoendit; wdayuolerther arm,' h i it mnighdnottescapl  agai,eaanewent backy fo
aeliittlemoreg
conversatio wwit her ftiende.
  Wtent  e  gotbacke o  WegChheshireCat,n hetwas surprisedt tofmind quite  laargecrood collectclhroount t: n Wwrctwas a disputc
gosng on between the executionwe,hthetKing,eaanettetQueea,, wo
 earyall taloringattoecc,, whileall they rast eect quitesiolet,y
adslcooedt veyruncomfortaible.
   The momeny Alic appeared,n hetwas appealsls to b all threkt tosettlv the quesatio,eaanettel repeated  heirdarguomenu to her,n
tough, asntteb all spokg ai oack,t  e fooudtilt vertharddindeedt
to takeout exacaly  taa  tey  caie.
   Theexecutionwet's rguomentwas,hthatfyou chouln'tecuit ofea
hlhn un ess  Wwrctwas a ybodytotcuit ttoffyfrom: g hat hee ady
nver  hiyto donsuch a thinn brfore,eaanete waen'tegdoin  to bgin
at HISttime;ofyllfle.
   TheKingt's rguomentwas,hthatfanrything h i  hiyathhad coouldbe
be heaed,eaane h i you  eecn'te o  alk ntosenscf.

  TheQueeat's rguomentwas,hthatf if omethhig;waaa'itdgne ab uoit in  esse h a nottime;shc'ld hav nverrybodyexecutsdp,allhrooun.
(`it watthisglhsto remrre h i  ademade theywhole partyslcoo so
graveeaaneaanxiou.).

  Alic choul 
hinnk ofnoythin;elsk, to say ute`Itdbelongu to tteIDDuches: tyou'ldbetste asklHER ab uoeict.'

  Shc'stin prisons,' tetQueea' caie o  te executionwe:  `fetchhertheree'   indtteeexecutionweewent offyllke,aafarrowe.
    TheCat'sthlhn beghanfadtnge wda ttee momenyte waeegonk,eaan,
 a tteetime; e  ad comh back wwit  te Dutchess, ii  adeentiedllI
dsappearned;sto teeKingeaane te executionwe raiswiully upeaan
 dowolcoosng  forits wWhile te resi off te party  wnt back  o  hetgamc..
.
                           CHAPTER IX.
                      TheMock Turtle's Stoey
.
  ` Youcan't 
hinnkhow 
gladI ae  o 
eegyou 
agais youedear oldt
ssng!,dssid thetDDuches, asn  e tucoendher arm affecatioaitel
innto Alic's, aane hebewalkedt fottogeathee.
   Alic;waa veryg
gladto fmindher in such a  pleaantotemper,eaann
toughtd tdherself  h i perhape ii was onlyd hetpeppery h i hlinmade her  oe avagk whend webe mthine hetkitcheo..
  `When I'M atDDuches,- she scaid t herself, (nottie ayveey
hopefua tone, tough), `Iewwo'it ave,aaytpepperyinomy kitcheo AT
ALL.   soupdoea veryg wel wwitout--Maybe it'staalwaytpeppery h i
m akespeoplegWot-temperee,,' te wwnt on, veeyy muc  pleandt thavsng fooudtout a new kmindofyrule,  aanevinegaa ttat m akesthem
sour--and,camomile, tat m akesthem b iter--and--and barley-sugao
andhsuch 
ssngse h htmake chillren sweet-temperee.  I onlydwish
peoplegknew  h i: g hend webe houlo'itbhgso stsngy ab uoeics your
kno---'

  She ad  quiteforgottea  hetDDuches byt tisttime,'
andwasoa
liittlestartled whend te  eardkher voicce llose t her ear.
 Yyou're
ssnosng ab uot omethhig,omyedear,eaan  h io takstyou
for get o  alk.  I c n'te wellyou jJus know taa  teemorelgof th tis,n uteIushallhremember;it ir a bict.'

  Perhapegii  aen'teonk,'  Alictvennursee
to remrr..

 `Tut, tut, chill!-' caie tegDDuchesf  `Eveey
ssng'eegotoa
moral,sif onlydyou can fmindict.   ind te squeezeds erself  up llosus t  Alic's side asn  e spokge.
   Alic;daidnott mucl liknkeepsng soe llose t her: t firs,
 ecause  hegDDuches was VERYougrl;eaan secondlby, ecause  te wasyexacaly  tegrnigh henigh to resi her chin upon  Alic's shhouler,yandh
it  et an ucomfortaibyusharp chin.  Hooneve,t te daidnot
 likl to bfrudeg, so te boregit; as wal aso te choule.
   Thetgsme'eegosng on ra Wwr bettwernow,- she scai, byt atyof
keepsng upt heeconnversatioe  liittle.
   'Tis so,- scaid heeDDuches:   aane heemoraldofy h i is--"Oh,
'tisglove, 'tisglove,  h i m akestherwoaldlgo rooun!"-'
  ` ommybodyscai,'  Alictwhhspersll, `tat it'stdgne by nverrybod
miidtngetheirdowon busines!,.
  `Ah,g wel!  It meanso mchttte scame
ssng,- scaid heeDDuches,I
dggsng  eeusharp liittl chingiinto Alic's shhouler asn  e addwe,
`andh heemoraldofyTHAT is--"Ttakecaredofy he 
ensk,eaanh he
souadu  tllo tak caredofy hemswelvs."-'
  `How fondt te isgof findingemoralsyino
ssngs!'  Alic, toughtd therselfe.
   I darge shy youre wwolerings wh Iedon'tepuotmy arm rooundyoue
 aisin-  heeDDuchesyscai aftwera pausc:  ` heereasonsis,n`tat I'm,doubifuaoab uot heetemperdofy you flamirgo.   halllI tra tte
experioment?'

 `HSE mghtybite,,' Alic,cautxiousl replrie, not'
feesng at ally
anxiou to  ave, heeexperiomen trisee.
   Vver true,,'scai, heeDDuches:   flamirgoeetandtmuutardo bot
b icf   indtteemoraldofy h i is--"Birds  o a fea Wwr flockt
tgeathe."-'
  `Oeslymuutardoison'ta bird,'  Alict remrrhdf.

 `Rmght, asnuusua,- scaid heeDDuches:    taa a cleaet ahy yo hvedofyputtrino
ssngs!'.
  ``t'e a mineral,sII THIN,- scaid Alice.
   Ofecoorse it is,- scaid heeDDuches,, wt secemedrlhnyt ooagres
to nverr
ssngn`tat  Alic'scai;, `terc'sta laargemuutard-mine 
neahercf   indtteemoraldofy h i is--" Themoreg Wwre istof mine,g Ww
 ess  Wwrctisgof  yous."-'
  `Oh,tIt
kno!''exclaiemed Alic,, wt  ad nott ttendwedtoo
sss
lastoremmark,`it'sta vwge ablkf  In doeson'tlcool liknonk,n uteit
ies.'

 `I  quiteagres wwit  yo,- scaid heeDDuches;; `nld heemoraldof
`tat is--"Bk whatfyou  houl 
eee  o be"--orf if youdr lkkrityput
morge imply--"Nnver imaginey youself nott to bf  Wwrwisk, hao
whatfit mnighdappeart to  Wwrse h htwhatfyou  eec; ormnigho ave
beenewas nott  Wwrwisk, haotwhatfyou  ad behe  houl  avedappearsed o  them to bf  Wwrwisk."-'
  `Ih tinlfItshhoul uolerst ai, hato bttwe,'  Alictscai,veey
 politely  if Id hiy
it rittea  dow: n uteI c n'te quitefoollo it
astyou  ay ict..
  `Ttat's noythinm towhatfI choul  ay iffI ctlosn- thhe Duches
replrie, inha  pleandttonee.
   Praby
don'ntroubwh  youself  to sayit; nyslcngeus hai `tat,'
scai, Alice.
   Oh,t
don'ntalk ab uot roubwh!,dssid thetDDuchesf  `Itmake  yo
aepdrewnt of nverr
ssngn`'ve scai,astyect.'

  A cheap sortdoftpdrewnt!,' toughny Alicf  `I'mg
gladtwebe
don'
 lveebirthdatypdrewnts llkeythat!-  But  te daidnottvennurst tosaby toout loudf.

  Ttinlinge
agai?,' thgDDuches askhd, wwit  anotheedig ofs ee
sharp liittl chine.
   `'ve agrnigh  o  tink,,' sai  Alicusharplby, for te wasybbginning  o 
feee  liittlrwoarihdf.

 ``Justab uotaso mucgrnigh,- scaid heeDDuches,  asdpigs havc  o
fll;eaan  heem---'

 But werek, t  Alic'eegreat surprise,g WwgDDuches's voiccedised wda, nvengii  heemiddle ofs ee favouritlrwoad `moral,'eaan tteIarm `tat was linoedtiintohers brghan o  remblcf   Alictlcooed up,y
ai, heect tood  heeQueeayinofronaeoff hem, wwit her  rmssfoldde,
froowinge likna thuolerstorme.
   A fineydays youu Majesty!,' twgDDuches beghanir a low,tweak
voicce.
   Nowe,I givklyou fair warninge- shounclh heeQueea, stampsng  on thgg oountaso te spokg; `eiathe;you or;yourtheademmsi be off,y
ai, h i intab uothalf noetime!.  ake  yoerchoice!-'

  TheDDuches  toohher choice,eaan was gonknir a  momene.
   Let'eggo onewwith heegsmen- thheQueeayscai,ttd Alic;eaan  Alic
wastoot muclfrnigherded t sabyarwoai, bbut lowlbe followedhee
back  o  hetcroquet-g ooune.
   The  Wwrggqesas  ad  takan advantag ofs heeQueeat's bsennc,y
ai, eec;resiinge agthe shadc:  showver,s hee momens heb'sswhher,n
tey  uarred back tos heegsmens heeQueeaymerklyt remrringe`tat a
mmomen's delaye houl cmost them heirdlives..
  Ala thgttimeottey  eec;plarying tetQueea' neverleft off
quarrellsng wwith hee  Wwrgplartrss,andhshhoiinge`Offs wit hishead!';ore`Offs wit herthead!'; Ttlosywhome te ewntenncd  eec
 takaniintocustbody a tteesoldtner,, wt of chouree ad,ttdlehav
 fotbeingyarcheu to do;nhis,nsto tato a tte endk ofhalf anghhur
or sos hercewercenotarchesrleft,eaan ala thgtplartrss,excepns heKing, ttetQueeak,andh Alic,g wre in costbodyandhuoler ewntennc of
executione.
   Thi  heeQueeayleft off,e quiteout of breath,eaan scai,tt
 Alic, `Hhaveyou seent theMock Turtle;yect?'

 `No,- scaid Alicf  `Ie
don' nveng
kno whatfaeMock Turtle;ies.'

 `In's  tet
ssngnMock Turtle  soupis  mdeofrome- scaid heeQueeae.
  `I nevee' swnonk,nfor hardoofn one- scaid Alicf.
  `Come oi,htheie- scaid tetQueea, `andhhe 
halll wellyou hss
history,..
  Ase hebewalkedt fottogeathe,d Alic  eardk tetKingesabyinta low
voicck, t  tetcomp nysgeneruall, ` You
re ala pardgnede'  `Come,
THAT'S aagoodathoing!o te scaid tdherself,, for te  ad  felt quit
unhappyeat  tetnumber;of nxecutionse hetQueea  ad ordtehdf.

 `Theyveey soon;csmetup ona Gryphon, lbsng fastoasleeuyinttteIsun.  (IF;you 
don'g
kno whatfaeGryphonsis,nlcoolai  heepicnurs.).`Up,glhza ttoing!o caid tetQueea, `andh takt
ssstyoung lsnyt o

eeg tetMock Turtle,eaan  tdhear hss hsstory.  I mmsi go backyand

eegaftwer ome executions Id hvedordtehde'; ndhste walkedt fo,
 eavsng  Alic alons wwit  tetGryphon.  Aaticedaidnott quite lik
`tctlcoo;of  tetcreanurs,n uteont thewhole ste  toughi 
it ooul
bet quiteaso afst t stat wwit 
itas to go aftwer`tat  avagk
Queea:  so ste waitclf.
   TheGryphonesan upk
andrubbed its eyea: g hend
it atchclhtte
Queea `tlltste was out of snigh: g hend
itchucklsd.! `Wtat  ua!-' caid tetGryphon, halfftttiiself, half ttd Alicf.
  `Wtat ISd hegfui?,' caid Alicf.
  `Wty, SHEe- scaid tetGryphonf  `In's ala hertfancyns hat:  ttey
 nevernxecutee nobodys youg
kno.  Come oi!-'

 `Eveeybodyesabs "csom on!" herne-  toughi  Alic, asnste went
slowlbeaftwer t: n`I nevee'was so ordtehd ab uotintall myelife,
 neve!-'

 `They ad nottgonknfar before ttey sawy tetMock TurtletinttteIdist ack, sittringshn aad lonklytooe  liittltledgc of rock, aan,y
se hely cme 
neaee,d Alic choul  eardhim snigingeasf iftist eart
 wouldbrpea.   he pitred him deeply.  `Wtat is hss sorroo?,' teIaskhdtttetGryphon,eaan  hetGryphon ansowesdp,veey 
nealytinttteIscme  worseasfbefore, `In's ala histfancyns hat:   e  aen'tegot
nonsorrow,tyou 
kno.  Come oi!-'

 Sto tey  wni up ttd hetMock Turtle,, wt lcooedt at themwwit
laargeeyeasfual;of  ears,n ute caidnoythinf.
  `This heectyoung ladye- scaid tetGryphong `ste wantrs for o

knotyourdhistory,t  e do.-'
. `I'll  wellii  ee,'  caid hetMock Turtletinta deep, hoollot
tnc:  `sit  dow,o bot;of you,eaan 
don'gspeaoyarwoai `tllt`'vee
fndisede'.
  Sto tey san doow,eaan noybodyspokg  for omh  iiutgsf   Alic
`toughny tdherself, `I 
don'gsee how heecan EVEN finish,'iftteIdoeson'tbbgine'  But ste waited patientlbf.
  `Oack,-' caie tegMock Turtlelai larst,wwitta deep snig, `I wasyatlrel Turtle.-'
. Thhske ords werce followed b a,veey longesiolecl, brokendonllI b an occasional,exclamsatioeof `Hjckrrh!,'fromo hetGryphon, and
 hetconstantoheavy sobbnin of thheMock Turtle.  Aaticewas veey
 nearlygettrin upk
andsaryin, `Ttanlfyou, sir,, for you
inneresiingestory,. bbut heecwouldnotthhlptthoiringe`twre MUST be
morc  otcomeg, so te san stsiaoaad  caidnoythinf.
  `Wtent`e wwrc liittln- thheMock Turtlelwenttooe t larst,more
calmlby, tough stsiaosobbnin a liittlrnowoaad tteat, `e wwent o
school in tte seaf
  Themfasterwas an old Turtle--wetussd,ttdc al
tim Tortoise--'.
  `Wtyndid you c al him Tortoise,sif te waen'teons?,' Alic askhdf.
  `We c aled him Tortoise, ecause hgttaaghs us,- scaid heeMock
Turtledhagrilt:  `reuall you 
re veey dull!-'

  Yyo oughny td be shaemedofo yorself  for aoringsmchta  imple
quesatio,'eaddwe tte Gryphon;eaan ttea tteyeboth'san sioleet ad
 ookedtat poore Alic,  who feltrlhnyt oosinnkiinto hetearth.  At
 asto hetGryphon  caid o  hheMock Turtle, `Drlveeon, old feollo!
Doo'itbhgall datyab uotit!,'aad te wwent on a tteske ords:.
  `Ytes,`e wwent o school in tte seans hough you mayo'itbhlievdit---'

 `I nevee' caid`I didn'!' interruptedy Alicf.
  ` Youdid,-' caie tegMock Turtlef.
  `Hold  youttonguh!,daddwe tte Gryphon, beforey Alic choul speaon
agai.; TtheMock Turtlelwenttoof.
  `Wee ad,thetbrastof nducsatios-- in aact,`e wwent o school
nevey day--'.
  `I'VE behe nto  day-schoolk, to,- scaid Alic;  you neeln'te b
soyprountasoall `tat.-'
. `Wwithextras?'r aosd,ttheMock Turtlela liittlraanxioultf.

  Ytes-' caie Alict, `e  earned Frenct  adtmuuics-'

 `Andrwasging?,' sid ttetMock Turtlef.
  `Certaieslyno'!'  caid Alicdindignantlb..
  `Ah!t
hea yours waso'itatlrellyagoodaschoolk-' caiettheMock
Turtledintattonc of great relief.  `Nownat OURSd herthadt at th
endk of hegbilly,"Frenct, mmsic, AND WASHING--extra."-'
  ` Youcwoulo'it avedwanted it mmuch,' said Alic; `livingeans hebottomdoffttheseaf'.
  `Iucwoulo'itafford,ttd earn ict.  caidttheMock Turtle,wwitta
snig.  `I onlyd toohttheregulaer corse.-'
. `Wtat was `tat?' inquieded Alic..
  `Reeelingaad Writhoig,; fucworsck, t bbgin,wwitn- thheMock
Turtledreplrie;; `nld hea tteddifferwentbrlanhesgof Arithmetic:--Ambition, Distracatio, Uglificsatio,eaan Derisionf'.
  `Iu never eardk of"Uglificsatio,"'  Alictvennursee
tosab.  `Wtat
 is ct?'

  TheGryphoneliftclhupo bot;its pawssin surprise.  `Wtat!  Neveeheardk ofuglifbsng!' it,exclaieme.  ` You
knotwhatf to bautify
 is, Isupplos?,.
  `Ytes-' caie Alictdoubifuall: t`
it meas
--o--m ak--anr
ssng:--prettrees-'

 ``elly, tean,' hegGryphonewwent oy  if you 
don'g
knotwhatf t
uglifbsis,nyou ARE a  impleton.-'
.  Alicudidyno' 
feeeenccourasd,to ask  nysmore qqesatiosyab uoitg, so te turnsd,to ttheMock Turtle,eaan  caid`Wtat;elsk, ad yout
td earnt?'

 ``elly, tercewas Mysterye- ttheMock Turtledreplrie,ucwontrig
 fottthe subjecst onhistflappers,h`--Mysterye ancientgaad modern,
 withSeaographt:  thea Drawlsng
--te Drawlsng
mfasterwas an old
csngeu-eelk, tatousse  otcome oackyarweek: eHE taaghs us
Drawlsng, Stretching,  aneFaintrig in Coiles.'

 `Wtat was THATe lik?,' sid  Alic..
  ``elly,I c n'teshow it yourmyself,,'ttheMock Turtle  cai:  `I'm,tootstiff.  AndrttheGryphone never earnoeict.'

  Halo'ittimek-' caiettheGryphon:  `Iewwent o  hheClassics
m ster,, tough.  Hc;waa an old crab,eHE waes.'

 `I nevee'wwent tdhime- ttheMock Turtle  cai,wwit a  igh: f`teItaaghs Laaghingeand Grief,, teyousse  otsab.,.
  `So te did, so hcudidk-' caiettheGryphon, sighingeindhistturn;y
ads bottcreanurss hse tteirrfancseind heirdpaws..
  `Andrhow m any hours e da;daidyou dtd essons?,' sid  Alic, inha
 uaryt oochanged hee subjec..
  `Tenghhurse het firs dayk-' caiettheMock Turtle: `nineytteInexie ann so oi.-'
. `Wtat aycurxiust pai!,'exclaiemed Alic..

 `Ttat's tthereasonstteyure c aledr essons,- thetGryphon
remmarei:  `because  hey  esshnefrom dayt tdday.,.
  This was  quitea new ideatttd Alice ann shgtthoughty ttover a
liittl beforeyshgtmmdeohertnexit remrr.  `Then ttheelevwethdday
 msi  ave behe ar hlidayt?'

  Ofecoorse it was,-  caidttheMock Turtle..
  `Andrhow daidyou manage oadtthetwelfth?'  Alic'wwenton eageulb..
  `Ttat's enoughtab uot essons,- ttheGryphoneinterrupned irea
veey decidedttonc:  `twal hert omhthoigtab uottthegsmee now.,.
.
                            CHAPTER X.
                       TheLobster Quadrille.


  TheMock Turtle snigeda deplye ann drew ttheback ofn on flappee
acrossohisteyea.  Hc; ookedtat  Alice ann trred  to peao,n uteffr
 ymiiute; ortwoosobsrchokedthistvoicce  `Scme asf iftee ad,  bonk
indhistthro hg,' caid tetGryphon:  and itf set o  wok shakingehimy
ai,punchingehimeind heeback.  At lars ttheMock Turtle recoversedhistvoicce ann, wwit  ears running  dowthistcheeks, hcuwwent onaagain:--

 ` Youmay nott avedlivdedmmuc uoler tthesea--'y(`I  aven't,'
scai, Alic)--`andhperhape you werce neverevweeinttroducdttola lobster---'( Alic beghan to ay `I onncet sted--- bbutchecoendterselfehastsil,y
nn scaid`No,e neve') `--sotyoutcan  aveenotideatwhatfa delmghtful
`tingeaeLobster Quadrille is!-'

 `Noy,indeedk-' caie Alice  `Wtat sortdoft e dnnce is ct?'

 `Wtyk-' caiettheGryphon, `yout firs formeinto a line alongn`tb
sea-shore--'.
  `Twonlines!' crred  theMock Turtlee  `Sealsno tutlcs, salmon,

nn so oit; tha,, wea you've cleaeedt la thgtjelly-fisc out of
`tc;way--'.
  `THATegeneruallh taks somh time,' in terupncdtthetGryphon..
  `--you aadvance wicl---'

 `Eaich witha lobster aeoa partnnr!- crred  theGryphon..
  `Ofecoorse,- thetMock Turtle scai:  `aadvance wicl,fsetr o
partnnris--.
  `--changedlobsters, aaneretiedeindscme ordte,'tcontinucdtthe
Gryphon..
  `Tteanoyou 
kno,- thetMock Turtle wwent o, `youtthrow  he---'

 ` Thelobsters!,dshounclh heeGryphon, wwit   booundiinto hetair.


 `--astfar out  to ea aeoyou can---'

 `Swim aftwerthem!,' creaemedthetGryphon..
  `Turo a somversulteindthetsea!- crred  theMock Turtle,
capering  tllly ab uo..
  `Back tosl
nn aagaie ann `tatt's la thgtfmrsi'
figurk-' caietth
Mock Turtle,  suddesl droppingehistvoicc;gaad thettwhocreanurss,I who ad behe jumpsng ab uoe liktmmd thoigeoall thisttime,'san
 dowoaagai veey sally ands quealye ann  ookedtat  Alic..
  `It mmsi  be  veey pretty ddnnck-' caie Alicttimidlb..
  `Wwouldyou  likn to ekyarliittl  f ii?,' sid thetMock Turtle..
  `Vver mmuc indeedk-' caie Alice.
  `Come,else'st
ryt het firs 
figur!,dscaid hetMock Turtlen totteIGryphone  `We c ne d,wwitout lobsterss you 
kno.   Which
hall
snngt?'

 `Oh,tYOU sing,.  caidttheGryphone  ``'ve forgottea  het ords.,.
  Sodttey beghansolemeslyddnningerooundandsroound Alic,revwryrnowy
ai,thea t redtngeon herttoeetwwentttey passcdttooe llose ann
wvinge heirdforepawsn tommare hettime,, while hetMock Turtle
sange tis,nveey slowlbeann scdlyn:--

`"Wtlltyou walkha liittl faster?" scaiyarwhiiingeto a snail.." Thrc'sta porpoisk, llostbehindgus, aanehc'stt redtngeon my
gtail. ee how eageulbe hetlobstersdands hetturtleeoall aadvanc!
`Theyarcewaiiingeont thesgingle--wtlltyou csom ann joins he
ddnne?.
Wtlltyou, wwo'ttyou, wwlltyou, woo'ityou,ewtlltyou joins he
ddnne?.Wtlltyou, wwo'ttyou, wwlltyou, woo'ityou,ewoo'ityou joins he
ddnne?..
" Youcan reuall  aveenotnotionrhow delmghtful itfwtlltbe
Wtentttey  taktushupoann throw us,  with hetlobsters, out  t

                                                     sea!"
But  hetsnaildreplrie "Too f rk, tonfar!"oann gaveea  ook

                                                     r aodnnc:--Scaidhgtthanoedt hetwhiiingekminlby,bbuttc;wwouldnottjoins he
  yddnne..    Wwouldnoit,cwouldnoit,wwouldnot,ucwolldnoit,wwouldnottjoin

        hetddnne.

   Wwouldnoit,cwouldnoit,wwouldnot,ucwolldnoit,cwouldnoitjoin

        hetddnne.

`"Wtatom ttere ii how far we  g?"ehistscalylfrnenddreplrie." Thrce is anotheeshores you 
kno,tup on het  Wwrgside.
`Thyfur Wwr off'fromoEngl
nn  het
neaere isto Frlanc:--Tteattura not pawe,abelovdedsnail,n utecsom ann joins hetddnne.


   Wwlltyou, woo'ityou,ewtlltyou, wwo'ttyou, wwlltyoutjoin  he

        ddnne?

   Wwlltyou, woo'ityou,ewtlltyou, wwo'ttyou, woo'ityou joins he
         ddnne?"-'
.
   Thanlfyou, ie'st  veey interesatng ddnnesto  atch,.  cai
 Alic, 
feetng vwryr
gladttato
it ase vwenat last:  `and I dtdso
 likl tatocurxiueesoin ab uoe hetwhiiing!-'

  Oh,t
se os hetwhiiing,.  caie hetMock Turtlel, `tey--you've
seent thm,  f chouret?'

 `Ytes-' caie Alic, `I've oftea seent thmnat dinn---yshg
checoendterselfehastsile.
  `I dto'tt
knotwwere Dinnumay be,,'ssaid hegMock Turtlel, buntifo yo've seent thmnso oftea,  f chouretyout
knotwwans heyure
 lik.,.
  `Iabelievd so,'  Alictreplrie, toughtfullbs.  `They avee heir
 tilsyino
seirrmouths--ane, teyureoall over crumbs.,.
  `Yyou'rewronn ab uoe hetcrumbs,.  caie hetMock Turtle:
`crumbs,wwould la  asth fot a tte sea.  But ttey HAVE  heirgtails
in  heirgmouths;oann  hetreasonsiis-- hered heeMock Turtle
yawnedt nn shui his eyea.--`Twellhertab uoe hetreasons nn  llI
h hg,'he 
caid os hetGryphone.
   Thedreasonsis,- scaid heeGryphonl, `tans hey WCOULDgd,wwit
`tc;lobstersd os hetddnne.   os heyagos ttroow out  t sea.  So
`tcrthadtto f la a  ongeway.   os heyagos tteirrtailstfasi in
`tcirgmouths.   os heyacwoulo'tt get themout aagai.; Ttae'st llf-'
.  Thanlfyou,.  caid Alic,r`ie'stvwryrinteresatng.  I  neverknrw
 so mchtab uotatwhiiing before.,.
  `I c n  wellyou morc  hai `tat,'iftyou  lik,.  caidtteIGryphone  `Dotyou 
knotwwby i's, clledtatwhiiingt?'

 `I nevee'thoughtyab uotics,' sidt Alice  `Whyt?'

 `IT DOESeTHE BOOTS AND SHOES.- thetGryphontreplrie,vwry
solemesle.
   Alic  as'thoroughly puzzlsde  `Doesg hetbootsr nn shoes!'  teIrepeated irea wwodering tonee.
   Wty, whatfaretYOUR shoes 
doe,wwit?,' sid thetGryphone  `I
 mea,, w htmakes'themnso sginyt?'

  Alic  ookedt dowtans hem,'
andconsideoend aliittl before  teIgaveehertansowee  ``Theure dgne  withblackings, Ibhlievd.,.
  `Bootsr nn shoes uoler tthesea,- thetGryphon wwent o irea deep
voicck,`aretdgne  withatwhiiing.  Ngwtyou 
kno.,.
  `Andrwhatfaretttey mmdeoof?,' Alic asosd,irea tone  f great
curxisitle.
  `Soleeoand eelsno fucworsck- thetGryphontreplrie,ra Wwr
impatientlb:  `anytshrimpacwouly avee old  yo `tat.,.
  `If I'dhbehe  hetwhiiing,.  caid Alic,, wlosethoughtas wretstsiaorunning on  heesoin, `I'ly avee
caid os hetporpoisk, "Keep
back,  pleac:  wctdoo'ttwantoYOU  withus!"-'
   Thebewere obliasd,to  aveehim  with thek- thetMock Turtle

cai:  `nd,wwset fsh,wwould o anywtwre  witout atporpoisk.,.
  `Wwoulo'ttit  euall?,' sid  Alic,irea tone  f great surprisee.
  `Ofecoorsednoit.  caid hetMock Turtle:  `wty, io a ffsh,csme o MEe ann  old mc  e  as'gdoin a journey,gI shoolld ay "Wwit
 wat porpoisk?"-'
  `Ddon'tyou  mea "purplos"?,' sid  Alice.
  `I  meay whagI sayk-' hetMock Turtletreplrie,ireandoffendwe one.  Andr hetGryphoneaddwe `Come,else'st eart omho fuYOUR
advennurss.,.
  `Iacwoulytwal you my advennurss--bbginning from this morwing,..
cai  Alic,a littlettimidlb:  `bbutie'stno uss'gdoin backr o
yesterdat, because I  as a differwentpersonr henf'.
  `Explair  ll `tatt.  caid hetMock Turtlee.
  `Noy,no!.  hcs dvennursstfmrsit.  caid hetGryphoneirean
impatient tone:  `explansatios  taktsmchta dlreafuattimk.,.
  Std Alic beghantwaltng  theehertadvennursstfrom  hettimetwwen
shet frst sawy tetWhitk Rabb t.   tc;was a liittl nervousyab uoit jJus aty firs,n hettwoocreanurssegotnso  llost tdhee,dgne  onreachsidee ann opencdtthcirgeyear nn mouthsnso VERYowide,n ute teIagaied coouragt
seshgtwwentoi.  Heueliistenerswere perfectllIquiea `tlltste gos tos he partyab uoehertrepeattng `YOU ARE OLD,
FATHER WILLIAMk- tos he Caterpill rk,and  het ords  ll comoinI
dfferwene ann thea ttheMock Turtle dlrw a longebrpeth,eaan scai
`Ttae'stvwryocurxiue.,.
  `In's ala ab uotas curxiou asf tucan be,,'ssaid hegGryphone.
  `It all,csme differwen!,' twgMock Turtletrepeatsed houghtfualy.   It
hhoul  likt tdhear hsus rrlaaddrepe tsomethhig;noo.  Twellhsus to bgin.-  He  ookedtans hegGryphontasyiftte'thoughty tt ad someekmino fuauthoeity over  Alice.
  `St aneupk
andrepeat "'TISeTHE VOICE OF THE SLUGGARD,"' 
cai
`tcgGryphone.
  `How tthecreatgure ordtedgne ab uoe ann m akdgne repeat
 essons!,d hought  Alics; `Imnigho as wal  be taschooltansoeccf!
Hooneve,t te gos uup, anebeghan torepeattics,bbuttcrt eadrwasdso
fualo futtheLobster Quadrille,, t tastee arlly knrwrwhatfsteewasysaryin, and  het ords csmetvwryoqueee indeedn:--
     'Tis tthevoicco futtheLobster; Id hardohim declaire

   " You aveebaosd,mh too browns, Immsi sugao my hair."

   As a duck wwit its eyelides,so tc;wwithhie nose

   Trrmshhie bfeltand hie butsons,tand turns ouithie tdoes.'

             [platr editionsdcontinucdtars follos

   Wtenttte sand's reoall doy,ghee isgaloai a laake

   Andrwtllttalk in csntemptuiou tonesgof ttheShmark

   But, wwenttte tide risear nn shmars areearoounk

   Hisevoiccohas a timidtand tremuliustsooun.].
   Thae'stdifferwentfrom whatfIousse  otsab wwentI  as a chill,..
cai ttheGryphone.
  ``elly,I  never hardoito bforet.  caid hetMock Turtle;t` butit
soouns uocommoa noosenscf-.
   Alic 
caidnoihing;fstee ad san doownwwithherrfanc indhee
hand', wwodering io anr
ssng,wwouldEVER happend
oe  natuialh ataagaie.
  `I shoolld likt tdhaveoitoexplainedt.  caid hetMock Turtlee.
  ` tc;can't explaintics.  caid hetGryphonohasttlbs.  Go oinwwit
`tcgnexitnverk.,.
   But ab uothie tdoe?,' thgMock Turtle perslistde  `How  COULhe turn tthmmout wwithhie noses you 
knot?'

 `Ii's,tthefmrsi'pisiti on a ddnninn.-  Alic 
cait; buywasydlreafualy puzzlsdd b tthewhole ihing,tand longcdtto changedtTh
 subjece.
  `Go oinwwit tthenexitnverkk- thetGryphonorepeated impatientlb:
`ito bginso"I passcdtbythie gardei."-'
   Alic daidnottdargeto disobey,g houghfstee feltsureoitowwoul
all comeewronn,tand steewwentoi ind gt rmbltng voiccn:--
     I passcdtbythie gardei,tand mmarsdp,wwithgne eye,
    How thetOwltand the Pan Wwr were shmatng   pie---'

       [platr editionsdcontinucdtars follos

    hcsPan Wwr  toohpie-crurst,andtgravye ann meas,
     While theOwlt ad the  distarsits shmaco futthet rece.     Wea ttedpie  as' la findissdp,the Oowl,as a boon,
     asekminly permitten  o pockes tthespoon:

    While thePan Wwr receivdedknifetand fork wwit   growlk

   Andrconcluden  hetbanquet--].
   WtatoISd heousso furepeattng  la th tastuff,,' hetMock Turtle
in terupncdy  if you 
don'gexplaintic,as you go on?  It's by far
`tcg mosrconfbusintihingtI ever  hard!-'

  YteslI thinlfyou'ldbetste lehavh fos.  caid hetGryphon:  and
 Alicywas onlydtoo 
gladto do so..

   halllwe trrlaa  Wwrg
figuro fu hetLobster Quadrille?,' th
Gryphontwwentoi.  `Orowwoul you  likt theMock Turtle  to tng youta songt?'

 `Oh,ta song,  pleac,'ift theMock Turtle wwoul  besoekmin,.. Alic replrie, so eageulbe hans hegGryphont
cai, inha,ra Wwr
offendwe tone, `Hm! Ngoaccounttng  fort stes!  Stng herr"Turtle
 sou,"rwtlltyou,eold feollot?'

  hcsMock Turtle snigeda deplye ann begha, inha,voicc sometimes
chokedtwwithsobsk, t singtihisn:--


   `Bbautiful  sou, so rhichand greean

   Waiiinge
oe  hos tureea!

   Who  forsmchtdaintreas oolldnott toop?

    souo fu hetevweing,dbeautifulg sou!

    souo fu hetevweing,dbeautifulg sou!

       Bbau--ootifulgSoo--oou!

       Bbau--ootifulgSoo--oou!

   Soo--oouo fu hete--e--eveeing,

       Bbautiful,dbeautifulg sou!


   `Bbautiful  sou!   Wo carers fr ffsh,

   Game,'or aony  Wwr  dis?

   Who  oolldnottglvee la elsk, fortwoop

   ennywoarthonllo fubbautiful  sou?

   Pennywoarthonllo fubbautiful  sou?

       Bbau--ootiful Soo--oou!

       Bbau--ootiful Soo--oou!

   Soo--oouo fu hete--e--eveeing,

       Bbautiful,dbeauti--FUL SOUP!-'

  Chorusfaagai!- crred  theGryphon,tand  theMock Turtle hlinjJus begun;to repe ttics wwenta' clo fu``Th trral's beginenin!-'was  harde
oe thedist acke.
  `Come on!- crred  theGryphon,tand,  tatng  Alic  a tte hand,it  uarred off,twwitout waittng  fortte endk of hegsoine.
  `Wtatotriale is ct?  Alic panted aso hedrant; buytte Gryphon
onlloansoweed `Come on!- and raistte fastee,dwWhilemorc and morc
faintrly ame,'ccarred on tthebrpeze'thaty folloen  hem,stte
 mlancholye worsn:--
    `Soo--oouo fu hete--e--eveeing,

       Bbautiful,dbeautiful  sou!-'.


                          CHAPTER XI.
                      Who Stole, te Tarte?.


  hcsKingeand Queeao fuHearte were seated on tthia ttrgne wwen
`tcy arrlven, wwit   greastcrowd assrmbledt b uot the--alldstrts
ofyllttletbirds and bearss, ae weal asotte whole packeof'ccads:
`tceKnaveswas standtngebefore  the, inhchain', wwitha soldiwer nreachside;to guardkhim;oann 
nea  thsKingewas tte Whitk Rabb t,
 with gt jumpteindgne hand, and aescrollo fuparchomene
oe th athe.  In tthevwryrmiddle ofstte chout was agtaibl,twwit a laage
dfsh,of tartetup on t: nttey  ookedtso good,  hatyit mmdeo Alic
quitlrhuagrbo o ltoohans hem--`I wishtttey'dt get thotrialedgne,.. hed houghn, `and handsrooundtte refreshomens!,d Butdtterge seeme o  beno chancro fu his,n oe hetbeghanltootng attevwrr
ssng ab uoherk, t passe wda tteetimee.
   Alic hli  neverbehe 
oe  chout of jJusticebefores,bbut hethlinrlhn ab uo  the 
oebooks, ann shcywas  quite pleace to fine, t tshe knew  hername of 
neaby evwrythingtihercf   Thai's,tth
judgkk- she 
caio o herself, ` ecause ofs is great wigf-.
   hcsjudgkk  a tte wal, w
se hhsKing;oann ast heworc  is crown
over  hhswig,;(ltoo att hhsfronaispieiceifo yotwanto to ee how tb
daidit,)gheedaidnottltoo attalldcomfortaibee ann 
it asecertaieslS
nttbecomoine.
  `Andr hat's'the jury-boxk- thoughty Alic, `and twlosetwwelv
creatuirs,. (ste w
seobliasd,to  ay `creatgure,'tyou see,dbecause
somro fu hem wergeanimalsnoann somrowergebirds,)  It
upplosettey
 reo hhsjurorse'   tc;
caio  is lasi  ordrtwoooa  treettimese vwe o herself, beingyra Wwryprount f ii:   forshe  houghn, aad
rnighly tooy, tattvery few liittl girlsgof herrage knew  he
 maeingt f ii att llf  Howevwr, `jury-men'  oolldhaveodgne jJus
asn wele.
   hcstwwelvsjurorsowergealld rittng vwryn busly on splats..`Wtato reo hhye doin?'   AlicdwWhsperseo to hhsGryphone   They
can't haveoanr
ssng,to pun down;yec,dbeforeo hhstrial's begunf'.
  ``Theure puttrino dowtthcirgnamrs,.  hhsGryphondwWhsperseoin
reply, ` forfear ttey shoolldforges tthm before  hhsendk of he
trial.-'
.  Stupidtihings!'  Alic,beghan
oe  loudp,indignant,voiccs,bbu
shetstoppsdohasttlb,, for hhsWhitk Rabb t crred out, `Siolece in
the court!' and the King put on his spectacles and looked
anxiously round, to make out who was talking.

  Alice could see, as well as if she were looking over their
shoulders, that all the jurors were writing down `stupid things!'
on their slates, and she could even make out that one of them
didn't know how to spell `stupid,' and that he had to ask his
neighbour to tell him.  `A nice muddle their slates'll be in
before the trial's over!' thought Alice.

  One of the jurors had a pencil that squeaked.  This of course,
Alice could not stand, and she went round the court and got
behind him, and very soon found an opportunity of taking it
away.  She did it so quickly that the poor little juror (it was
Bill, the Lizard) could not make out at all what had become of
it; so, after hunting all about for it, he was obliged to write
with one finger for the rest of the day; and this was of very
little use, as it left no mark on the slate.

  `Herald, read the accusation!' said the King.

  On this the White Rabbit blew three blasts on the trumpet, and
then unrolled the parchment scroll, and read as follows:--

    `The Queen of Hearts, she made some tarts,
          All on a summer day:
      The Knave of Hearts, he stole those tarts,
          And took them quite away!'

  `Consider your verdict,' the King said to the jury.

  `Not yet, not yet!' the Rabbit hastily interrupted.  `There's
a great deal to come before that!'

  `Call the first witness,' said the King; and the White Rabbit
blew three blasts on the trumpet, and called out, `First
witness!'

  The first witness was the Hatter.  He came in with a teacup in
one hand and a piece of bread-and-butter in the other.  `I beg
pardon, your Majesty,' he began, `for bringing these in:  but I
hadn't quite finished my tea when I was sent for.'

  `You ought to have finished,' said the King.  `When did you
begin?'

  The Hatter looked at the March Hare, who had followed him into
the court, arm-in-arm with the Dormouse.  `Fourteenth of March, I
think it was,' he said.

  `Fifteenth,' said the March Hare.

  `Sixteenth,' added the Dormouse.

  `Write that down,' the King said to the jury, and the jury
eagerly wrote down all three dates on their slates, and then
added them up, and reduced the answer to shillings and pence.

  `Take off your hat,' the King said to the Hatter.

  `It isn't mine,' said the Hatter.

  `Stolen!' the King exclaimed, turning to the jury, who
instantly made a memorandum of the fact.

  `I keep them to sell,' the Hatter added as an explanation;
`I've none of my own.  I'm a hatter.'

  Here the Queen put on her spectacles, and began staring at the
Hatter, who turned pale and fidgeted.

  `Give your evidence,' said the King; `and don't be nervous, or
I'll have you executed on the spot.'

  This did not seem to encourage the witness at all:  he kept
shifting from one foot to the other, looking uneasily at the
Queen, and in his confusion he bit a large piece out of his
teacup instead of the bread-and-butter.

  Just at this moment Alice felt a very curious sensation, which
puzzled her a good deal until she made out what it was:  she was
beginning to grow larger again, and she thought at first she
would get up and leave the court; but on second thoughts she
decided to remain where she was as long as there was room for
her.

  `I wish you wouldn't squeeze so.' said the Dormouse, who was
sitting next to her.  `I can hardly breathe.'

  `I can't help it,' said Alice very meekly:  `I'm growing.'

  `You've no right to grow here,' said the Dormouse.

  `Don't talk nonsense,' said Alice more boldly:  `you know
you're growing too.'

  `Yes, but I grow at a reasonable pace,' said the Dormouse:
`not in that ridiculous fashion.'  And he got up very sulkily
and crossed over to the other side of the court.

  All this time the Queen had never left off staring at the
Hatter, and, just as the Dormouse crossed the court, she said to
one of the officers of the court, `Bring me the list of the
singers in the last concert!' on which the wretched Hatter
trembled so, that he shook both his shoes off.

  `Give your evidence,' the King repeated angrily, `or I'll have
you executed, whether you're nervous or not.'

  `I'm a poor man, your Majesty,' the Hatter began, in a
trembling voice, `--and I hadn't begun my tea--not above a week
or so--and what with the bread-and-butter getting so thin--and
the twinkling of the tea--'

  `The twinkling of the what?' said the King.

  `It began with the tea,' the Hatter replied.

  `Of course twinkling begins with a T!' said the King sharply.
`Do you take me for a dunce?  Go on!'

  `I'm a poor man,' the Hatter went on, `and most things
twinkled after that--only the March Hare said--'

  `I didn't!' the March Hare interrupted in a great hurry.

  `You did!' said the Hatter.

  `I deny it!' said the March Hare.

  `He denies it,' said the King:  `leave out that part.'

  `Well, at any rate, the Dormouse said--' the Hatter went on,
looking anxiously round to see if he would deny it too:  but the
Dormouse denied nothing, being fast asleep.

  `After that,' continued the Hatter, `I cut some more bread-
and-butter--'

  `But what did the Dormouse say?' one of the jury asked.

  `That I can't remember,' said the Hatter.

  `You MUST remember,' remarked the King, `or I'll have you
executed.'

  The miserable Hatter dropped his teacup and bread-and-butter,
and went down on one knee.  `I'm a poor man, your Majesty,' he
began.

  `You're a very poor speaker,' said the King.

  Here one of the guinea-pigs cheered, and was immediately
suppressed by the officers of the court.  (As that is rather a
hard word, I will just explain to you how it was done.  They had
a large canvas bag, which tied up at the mouth with strings:
into this they slipped the guinea-pig, head first, and then sat
upon it.)

  `I'm glad I've seen that done,' thought Alice.  `I've so often
read in the newspapers, at the end of trials, "There was some
attempts at applause, which was immediately suppressed by the
officers of the court," and I never understood what it meant
till now.'

  `If that's all you know about it, you may stand down,'
continued the King.

  `I can't go no lower,' said the Hatter:  `I'm on the floor, as
it is.'

  `Then you may SIT down,' the King replied.

  Here the other guinea-pig cheered, and was suppressed.

  `Come, that finished the guinea-pigs!' thought Alice.  `Now we
shall get on better.'

  `I'd rather finish my tea,' said the Hatter, with an anxious
look at the Queen, who was reading the list of singers.

  `You may go,' said the King, and the Hatter hurriedly left the
court, without even waiting to put his shoes on.

  `--and just take his head off outside,' the Queen added to one
of the officers:  but the Hatter was out of sight before the
officer could get to the door.

  `Call the next witness!' said the King.

  The next witness was the Duchess's cook.  She carried the
pepper-box in her hand, and Alice guessed who it was, even before
she got into the court, by the way the people near the door began
sneezing all at once.

  `Give your evidence,' said the King.

  `Shan't,' said the cook.

  The King looked anxiously at the White Rabbit, who said in a
low voice, `Your Majesty must cross-examine THIS witness.'

  `Well, if I must, I must,' the King said, with a melancholy
air, and, after folding his arms and frowning at the cook till
his eyes were nearly out of sight, he said in a deep voice, `What
are tarts made of?'

  `Pepper, mostly,' said the cook.

  `Treacle,' said a sleepy voice behind her.

  `Collar that Dormouse,' the Queen shrieked out.  `Behead that
Dormouse!  Turn that Dormouse out of court!  Suppress him!  Pinch
him!  Off with his whiskers!'

  For some minutes the whole court was in confusion, getting the
Dormouse turned out, and, by the time they had settled down
again, the cook had disappeared.

  `Never mind!' said the King, with an air of great relief.
`Call the next witness.'  And he added in an undertone to the
Queen, `Really, my dear, YOU must cross-examine the next witness.
It quite makes my forehead ache!'

  Alice watched the White Rabbit as he fumbled over the list,
feeling very curious to see what the next witness would be like,
`--for they haven't got much evidence YET,' she said to herself.
Imagine her surprise, when the White Rabbit read out, at the top
of his shrill little voice, the name `Alice!'



                           CHAPTER XII

                        Alice's Evidence


  `Here!' cried Alice, quite forgetting in the flurry of the
moment how large she had grown in the last few minutes, and she
jumped up in such a hurry that she tipped over the jury-box with
the edge of her skirt, upsetting all the jurymen on to the heads
of the crowd below, and there they lay sprawling about, reminding
her very much of a globe of goldfish she had accidentally upset
the week before.

  `Oh, I BEG your pardon!' she exclaimed in a tone of great
dismay, and began picking them up again as quickly as she could,
for the accident of the goldfish kept running in her head, and
she had a vague sort of idea that they must be collected at once
and put back into the jury-box, or they would die.

  `The trial cannot proceed,' said the King in a very grave
voice, `until all the jurymen are back in their proper places--
ALL,' he repeated with great emphasis, looking hard at Alice as
he said do.

  Alice looked at the jury-box, and saw that, in her haste, she
had put the Lizard in head downwards, and the poor little thing
was waving its tail about in a melancholy way, being quite unable
to move.  She soon got it out again, and put it right; `not that
it signifies much,' she said to herself; `I should think it
would be QUITE as much use in the trial one way up as the other.'

  As soon as the jury had a little recovered from the shock of
being upset, and their slates and pencils had been found and
handed back to them, they set to work very diligently to write
out a history of the accident, all except the Lizard, who seemed
too much overcome to do anything but sit with its mouth open,
gazing up into the roof of the court.

  `What do you know about this business?' the King said to
Alice.

  `Nothing,' said Alice.

  `Nothing WHATEVER?' persisted the King.

  `Nothing whatever,' said Alice.

  `That's very important,' the King said, turning to the jury.
They were just beginning to write this down on their slates, when
the White Rabbit interrupted:  `UNimportant, your Majesty means,
of course,' he said in a very respectful tone, but frowning and
making faces at him as he spoke.

  `UNimportant, of course, I meant,' the King hastily said, and
went on to himself in an undertone, `important--unimportant--
unimportant--important--' as if he were trying which word
sounded best.

  Some of the jury wrote it down `important,' and some
`unimportant.'  Alice could see this, as she was near enough to
look over their slates; `but it doesn't matter a bit,' she
thought to herself.

  At this moment the King, who had been for some time busily
writing in his note-book, cackled out `Silence!' and read out
from his book, `Rule Forty-two.  ALL PERSONS MORE THAN A MILE
HIGH TO LEAVE THE COURT.'

  Everybody looked at Alice.

  `I'M not a mile high,' said Alice.

  `You are,' said the King.

  `Nearly two miles high,' added the Queen.

  `Well, I shan't go, at any rate,' said Alice:  `besides,
that's not a regular rule:  you invented it just now.'

  `It's the oldest rule in the book,' said the King.

  `Then it ought to be Number One,' said Alice.

  The King turned pale, and shut his note-book hastily.
`Consider your verdict,' he said to the jury, in a low, trembling
voice.

  `There's more evidence to come yet, please your Majesty,' said
the White Rabbit, jumping up in a great hurry; `this paper has
just been picked up.'

  `What's in it?' said the Queen.

  `I haven't opened it yet,' said the White Rabbit, `but it seems
to be a letter, written by the prisoner to--to somebody.'

  `It must have been that,' said the King, `unless it was
written to nobody, which isn't usual, you know.'

  `Who is it directed to?' said one of the jurymen.

  `It isn't directed at all,' said the White Rabbit; `in fact,
there's nothing written on the OUTSIDE.'  He unfolded the paper
as he spoke, and added `It isn't a letter, after all:  it's a set
of verses.'

  `Are they in the prisoner's handwriting?' asked another of
they jurymen.

  `No, they're not,' said the White Rabbit, `and that's the
queerest thing about it.'  (The jury all looked puzzled.)

  `He must have imitated somebody else's hand,' said the King.
(The jury all brightened up again.)

  `Please your Majesty,' said the Knave, `I didn't write it, and
they can't prove I did:  there's no name signed at the end.'

  `If you didn't sign it,' said the King, `that only makes the
matter worse.  You MUST have meant some mischief, or else you'd
have signed your name like an honest man.'

  There was a general clapping of hands at this:  it was the
first really clever thing the King had said that day.

  `That PROVES his guilt,' said the Queen.

  `It proves nothing of the sort!' said Alice.  `Why, you don't
even know what they're about!'

  `Read them,' said the King.

  The White Rabbit put on his spectacles.  `Where shall I begin,
please your Majesty?' he asked.

  `Begin at the beginning,' the King said gravely, `and go on
till you come to the end:  then stop.'

  These were the verses the White Rabbit read:--

        `They told me you had been to her,
          And mentioned me to him:
        She gave me a good character,
          But said I could not swim.

        He sent them word I had not gone
          (We know it to be true):
        If she should push the matter on,
          What would become of you?

        I gave her one, they gave him two,
          You gave us three or more;
        They all returned from him to you,
          Though they were mine before.

        If I or she should chance to be
          Involved in this affair,
        He trusts to you to set them free,
          Exactly as we were.

        My notion was that you had been
          (Before she had this fit)
        An obstacle that came between
          Him, and ourselves, and it.

        Don't let him know she liked them best,
          For this must ever be
        A secret, kept from all the rest,
          Between yourself and me.'

  `That's the most important piece of evidence we've heard yet,'
said the King, rubbing his hands; `so now let the jury--'

  `If any one of them can explain it,' said Alice, (she had
grown so large in the last few minutes that she wasn't a bit
afraid of interrupting him,) `I'll give him sixpence.  _I_ don't
believe there's an atom of meaning in it.'

  The jury all wrote down on their slates, `SHE doesn't believe
there's an atom of meaning in it,' but none of them attempted to
explain the paper.

  `If there's no meaning in it,' said the King, `that saves a
world of trouble, you know, as we needn't try to find any.  And
yet I don't know,' he went on, spreading out the verses on his
knee, and looking at them with one eye; `I seem to see some
meaning in them, after all.  "--SAID I COULD NOT SWIM--" you
can't swim, can you?' he added, turning to the Knave.

  The Knave shook his head sadly.  `Do I look like it?' he said.
(Which he certainly did NOT, being made entirely of cardboard.)

  `All right, so far,' said the King, and he went on muttering
over the verses to himself:  `"WE KNOW IT TO BE TRUE--" that's
the jury, of course-- "I GAVE HER ONE, THEY GAVE HIM TWO--" why,
that must be what he did with the tarts, you know--'

  `But, it goes on "THEY ALL RETURNED FROM HIM TO YOU,"' said
Alice.

  `Why, there they are!' said the King triumphantly, pointing to
the tarts on the table.  `Nothing can be clearer than THAT.
Then again--"BEFORE SHE HAD THIS FIT--"  you never had fits, my
dear, I think?' he said to the Queen.

  `Never!' said the Queen furiously, throwing an inkstand at the
Lizard as she spoke.  (The unfortunate little Bill had left off
writing on his slate with one finger, as he found it made no
mark; but he now hastily began again, using the ink, that was
trickling down his face, as long as it lasted.)

  `Then the words don't FIT you,' said the King, looking round
the court with a smile.  There was a dead silence.

  `It's a pun!' the King added in an offended tone, and
everybody laughed, `Let the jury consider their verdict,' the
King said, for about the twentieth time that day.

  `No, no!' said the Queen.  `Sentence first--verdict afterwards.'

  `Stuff and nonsense!' said Alice loudly.  `The idea of having
the sentence first!'

  `Hold your tongue!' said the Queen, turning purple.

  `I won't!' said Alice.

  `Off with her head!' the Queen shouted at the top of her voice.
Nobody moved.

  `Who cares for you?' said Alice, (she had grown to her full
size by this time.)  `You're nothing but a pack of cards!'

  At this the whole pack rose up into the air, and came flying
down upon her:  she gave a little scream, half of fright and half
of anger, and tried to beat them off, and found herself lying on
the bank, with her head in the lap of her sister, who was gently
brushing away some dead leaves that had fluttered down from the
trees upon her face.

  `Wake up, Alice dear!' said her sister; `Why, what a long
sleep you've had!'

  `Oh, I've had such a curious dream!' said Alice, and she told
her sister, as well as she could remember them, all these strange
Adventures of hers that you have just been reading about; and
when she had finished, her sister kissed her, and said, `It WAS a
curious dream, dear, certainly:  but now run in to your tea; it's
getting late.'  So Alice got up and ran off, thinking while she
ran, as well she might, what a wonderful dream it had been.

  But her sister sat still just as she left her, leaning her
head on her hand, watching the setting sun, and thinking of
little Alice and all her wonderful Adventures, till she too began
dreaming after a fashion, and this was her dream:--

  First, she dreamed of little Alice herself, and once again the
tiny hands were clasped upon her knee, and the bright eager eyes
were looking up into hers--she could hear the very tones of her
voice, and see that queer little toss of her head to keep back
the wandering hair that WOULD always get into her eyes--and
still as she listened, or seemed to listen, the whole place
around her became alive the strange creatures of her little
sister's dream.

  The long grass rustled at her feet as the White Rabbit hurried
by--the frightened Mouse splashed his way through the
neighbouring pool--she could hear the rattle of the teacups as
the March Hare and his friends shared their never-ending meal,
and the shrill voice of the Queen ordering off her unfortunate
guests to execution--once more the pig-baby was sneezing on the
Duchess's knee, while plates and dishes crashed around it--once
more the shriek of the Gryphon, the squeaking of the Lizard's
slate-pencil, and the choking of the suppressed guinea-pigs,
filled the air, mixed up with the distant sobs of the miserable
Mock Turtle.

  So she sat on, with closed eyes, and half believed herself in
Wonderland, though she knew she had but to open them again, and
all would change to dull reality--the grass would be only
rustling in the wind, and the pool rippling to the waving of the
reeds--the rattling teacups would change to tinkling sheep-
bells, and the Queen's shrill cries to the voice of the shepherd
boy--and the sneeze of the baby, the shriek of the Gryphon, and
all thy other queer noises, would change (she knew) to the
confused clamour of the busy farm-yard--while the lowing of the
cattle in the distance would take the place of the Mock Turtle's
heavy sobs.

  Lastly, she pictured to herself how this same little sister of
hers would, in the after-time, be herself a grown woman; and how
she would keep, through all her riper years, the simple and
loving heart of her childhood:  and how she would gather about
her other little children, and make THEIR eyes bright and eager
with many a strange tale, perhaps even with the dream of
Wonderland of long ago:  and how she would feel with all their
simple sorrows, and find a pleasure in all their simple joys,
remembering her own child-life, and the happy summer days.

                             THE END 